---
layout: post
title: The Bust
---

When Evgeny Simon returned from the middle east, he brought numerous souvenirs, including a strange statue, or at least part of a statue. It depicted the face of a woman, presumably a local goddess.

We, that is John Johansson, Patrick and Zachary Smith, and myself, had examined Evgeny Simons findings thoroughly. He had arranged them similar to exhibits in a museum and gave us a tour, detailing how he found each and every piece. 

He found the bust at a vendor in an insignificant settlement in the desert, so he told us. I now have my own suspicions about its origin. The craftsmanship was remarkable, still impressive after presumably a millennium of sleep. It was mad so that no matter where you stood (except behind it) it seemed as if its eyes are always locked on you, looking in your direction.

Zachary was the first to point this out, but we all had realized it at that point.

“Remarkable, isn’t it?”, Evgeny commented, looking at the bust. He set his notes with the details of his journey aside. “I rather like her looks.”

“She sure is beautiful, Evgeny, but she also gives me the creeps, if you get what I’m saying.”, said John, turning around, facing the other side of the room now. He looked over the tidy rows of ehibits.

“It’s got something unnatural”, he stated and turned back towards us, eyeing the face of stone with suspicion. “I don’t like it.”
Evgeny took a step closer to him, standing between him and the statue.

 “That’s why I brought her, John. If she were just another old statue, why would I care?” He shook his head. “Why should I care, John? I went on this journey to discover, not to bring back insignificant trinkets.”
 
“I don’t think she wants to be here.” Patrick had been silent until now. Evgeny threw a concerned look at him. 

“What do you mean?”, Evgeny asked, gesturing with his right hand.

“It’s still a piece of rock, Pat.”, I said, “It can’t have a will of its own.” 

Patrick looked at the floor, then to me: “I know, but still. It doesn’t feel right, I mean, maybe, Evgeny, you should have left her where you’ve found her.”

When Evgeny answered, he seemed flustered. “Nonsense! She would’ve rotten away, hadn’t I taken her with me!”

“Stone can’t rot, Evgeny.”, noted Zachary, who was already on the way to the next pedestal, holding a mostly intact vase.

“You know what I meant, Zach!” Evgeny started to get furious, turning to Zachary. I felt obligated to step in, but as I wants to defuse the situation, Evgeny had already crossed the distance to Zachary.

It is here, that I will describe Evgeny Simon closer. He was small, to the point he once had the nickname “Small Napoleon”, which was also due to his father coming from France. He had short black hair with strong curls, that no barber managed to get out. He hated the curls, which is why he wore wig most of the time he went outside.

His deep brown eyes were behind small spectacles, sitting on a flat nose. He had a beard when he returned, but as soon as someone noticed that his beard also curled, he hastily shaved himself.

He was known to eat well and often, but both his wife and waistcoat held him in check. It was this, his favourite waistcoat, that he wore today. 

On the other side stood the tall Zachary Smith, who had worked hi ways up in the shipyards. He wore his blonde hair short and the long sleeves of his shirt hid his arms. His eyes now pierced Evgeny.

“Calm down, Evgeny, nobody said something against you.” Zachary’s voice only seemed to enrage him more. Patrick suddenly stood between him and his brother.

“Please. There is no reason for this. Evgeny, I’m sorry, but this is really not necessary.” Patrick extended his arms to separate them.

“What is she even a goddess of?”, I asked. I stood towards its face, looking directly at it. I remember, it felt like being watched from within the statue. It was unsettling, but I couldn’t look away.

Evgeny backed down and now stood besides me. “I don’t really know; he didn’t tell me. I just thought she looked interesting.” He turned away and picked up his notes again, straightening them. I heard him sigh and he flipped through the small cards.

“So, next up we have a vase I found near Basra…”

Three months later I stumbled upon a text mentioning an ancient war-goddess, known for inciting feuds between friends and family, looking roughly similar to the statue. I never went to Evgeny’s exhibition ever since.
