---
layout: post
title: The Closet
---

There was a closet just beside my bedroom. 

I used to store random things there at first, anything ranging from old clothes, toys, or other memorabilia from my childhood. I always liked the closet, the memories it evoked, of peace, protection and security. When I first inspected it, after I moved in, I found it surprisingly spacious, far bigger than what I had imagined. The door to the closet was an old and dark wooden door, that faintly squeaked whenever I opened it, no matter how much oil I put in the joints.

I never paid much attention to the closet at first. Only after some particular hardships I found myself sorting some of the items stored away, and I noticed this distinct feeling of security. In here, the world was still good. Here, in the dark and dusty closet, where the essence of my childhood was stored away.

I started going there more often, whenever I felt depressed or anxious, often staying there for hours, looking through the boxes and shelves, the photographs and toys. It was comforting, and I felt I was back there, in my childhood home, where, each morning, the sunlight shone through the window into my room and on my bed, the bright greens, then warm yellows and reds, and finally the still browns of the old maple tree that stood in our backyard.

I do not remember when I started talking, or why I did that. But nevertheless, I did. I must have been talking to myself, but I found it relieving, it felt as if there was someone else, listening silently to everything I had to say. It had become a fixture in my day, and I noticed I planned when I would go into the closet. The closet wasn’t strange to me, just another part of my life.

I was not surprised when the closet answered the first time. It felt completely natural, even expected. With a soft voice it asked, *‘So what are you going to do now?’* The silence after this question felt thick and dusty, but when I answered, everything suddenly felt free. It was a cathartic experience, that relieved me more than everything before. I was not freaking out, I just calmly continued to talk, and the closet talked back.

After I had some success finding new work, and generally improving my life, I started to visit the closet less and less. But whenever there was something, I could go into the closet and talk with it. It was always understanding, always calm and collected.

I moved out of that hose years ago. When I recently saw that it was for sale, I couldn’t help but visit it again, and see after the closet. Sure, all the memorabilia were not there anymore, but I thought the dark confines could spare its peace one more time. When I toured the house and came to the bedroom, I was surprised to find the dark wooden door was not there anymore. I asked the agent where the closet went, but they just looked at me confused.

I do not know whether memory failed me, but when I looked at the plans for the building, laid out in front of me, I came to a realization.

There had never been closet there.
