---
layout: post
title: The Hills of Silence
---

There is a difference between silence and quiet. 

Quiet is soft and soothing, like the roiling of waves or the musings of wind. Quiet is an autumn afternoon where the wind plays in the trees and the sun warms the earth. It is a blanket that shields you from the outside, where you can be yourself without interruption. But quiet is not silence. Silence is hard and suffocating. It is the absence of sound. It is like being pressed between two boulders, where the only sound is the blood rushing through your ringing ears. Silence is isolation. Silence is imprisonment.

“They were called the ‘Hills of Silence’”, I said, “where no sound could be heard. Legend has it that not even falling rocks impacting the ground made any sound.”

I returned to the living room with my azure teakettle. It was the largest room in the cottage, which sounds bigger than it actually was. It was cramped with most of my belongings, the other rooms being the bedroom, kitchen and bath. Its centrepiece was the couch, three pieces forming a large construct of leather, velvet and corduroy. 

There sat Sasha, an unforeseen, but welcome guest. She half sat, half lied, sinking deep into the cushions.

“Why were they called that?” She sat up, grabbing the cup I offered her.

“You know this question, whether a falling tree makes a sound when no one is there to here it? It plays on the idea that we can only be sure of existence if we directly observe it. I always took it as a funny little riddle, a thought experiment at best, but this place has got me thinking about it more and more.

“The mountains are dangerous, often prone to rockfalls and avalanches. Around every corner is a new danger, every path can be a trap waiting for you to spring it. If you’re not careful, you can easily plummet a great distance. And if the fall doesn’t, well, kill you…”. I stopped and looked at her. She knew what the rest of the sentence was.

“There is no one to help you.”

“Exactly. Even if you’d manage to cry for help, legend has it that no one can hear you anyway.” I poured us each a cup of tea. Over its soft steaming aroma I looked out of the window. It had begun to snow and the soft, white blanket had begun to lay the world to rest. The crackling fire took over our conversation, filling the eery quiet of unfinished sentences and unspoken words.

The last rays of sunlight, multiply reflected by the snow to a parade of reds, yellows and oranges illuminated the mountains, the ‘Hills of Silence’. Their peaks stood strong and sharp against the darkening sky.

“So what you’re saying is that no one ever came back out from the mountains?”, Sasha asked. She drew closer to me, reaching over me to grab a blanket.

“Yup. When I first got here I was warned to never go into the mountains, because they were dangerous. A young villager, not much older than you are, explained to me why the mountains were dangerous, how the rocky hills could start falling any moment, how the seismic activity slew rifts into the ground and how the steep, smooth ridges couldn’t keep the snow. 

“Just when I thanked him and wanted to make my way back to the cottage an old man in his 80s if not even his 90s came over to us. He greeted me and said that what I had been told was wrong. I could see the other closing his eyes and I knew I would get some kind of fairy tale like story, and sure enough, that’s what I got.

“’Humbug!’, he said, ‘That’s not what’s happening. It’s the sorcerer of the mountains!’”

“A sorcerer? Really?”, Sasha laughed.

“Yeah. ‘He takes you in and robs you of your voice, so that no one can find you. Only the dear lord in heaven knows what he does to you then.’” I leaned back into the cushions and took a sip of my tea.

“You know I’m not much of a mountain climber, but I do fancy myself a good hike. I’ve been to some dangerous places before, and that didn’t stop me then, so I wouldn’t let this stop me now. I looked up a lot of maps, articles about recent earthquakes and all of that stuff. When I felt comfortable with the situation, I went in.”

Sasha gasped. She moved her head back a bit, looking up and down, as if trying to find out whether I was real or not. She seemingly came to the conclusion that I was in fact real and I could continue.

“That sounds more dangerous than it really was. I wasn’t the first one to get in and out, there have been some expeditions prior to me arriving here. I had planned to follow their routes. I found a nice one without climbing, just walking along some of the valleys and ridges.

“I prepared a knapsack with tools, a flare and some food and started my hike into the hills.”

The setting suns last rays of golden light now shone above the horizon and as night fell and the darkness came, quiet became silence. Even the crackling fire seemed to be hollow and when it reduced itself to embers no one of us cared to stoke it again.

“I went into the mountains shortly after dawn. There was still dew in the high grasses and reeds and I followed the planned path up the first winding way into the foothills. From here I went directly along the trail, religiously following my planned route.

“The view was astounding, truly. Untouched nature, the wild mountain biome in its purest form.” I paused and looked at the window, where small ice crystals started to form at the window panes seam.

“I noticed the wind, or mor precisely, the lack thereof. The mountains deserved their name. There was no sound but those I made myself. I tried to cheer up despite the intimidating atmosphere, but I couldn’t bring myself to sing or speak, in fear I would somehow greatly upset the very nature around me. There were no animals around me as well. Nothing and no one to keep me company. 

“My path lead me to a small forest right when I was deepest into the mountains. There was a small wooden hut. It seemed that it was lived in, because I could see the faintest trace of smoke coming out of its chimney. I couldn’t restrain myself, I had to go there and see for myself what exactly was going on there.

“I went down a steep slope and pebbles around me began to fall as well. Despite sliding and colliding, they made no sound. It was completely and utterly silent. Just as I was beginning to slide, I found sturdy ground again and could move forward to the hut. It was a strange sight. I walked up to its door, through a garden of sorts, where, besides weeds and other grasses, some herbs could be found. 

“When I heard the whistling of a kettle it felt like someone had screamed into my ear. It was so loud to me, so jarring, so unworldly. I screamed, I think, but no sounds came from my throat, just warm air escaping my body. I tried to shield my ears, put my hands up against them but nothing helped. This high pitched sound drew itself into my soul like a needle piercing cloth.

“I fell to my knees. It was unbearable. And then the door opened.” I fell silent. A sudden chill came down my spine, and I looked down into my mug. I took a sip and laid back into the cushions. A blanket was warming my body, but at that moment nothing could have warmed my soul as I remembered what had happened.

“It was the old man. The one warning me of the sorcerer in the hills. He stood there, above me on the doorstep, looking down on me not in pity, but victorious. His face screamed in superiority, in victory. He had shown me that I was wrong, that I was not returning. That the sorcerer had taken me.

“I tried to cry out, to shout, to scream, to make any sound at all, but nothing escaped me. It was like someone or something suffocating every fibre of my being, every joint, every muscle muffled, as if I was drowning in nothingness.

“He laughed, but there was no joy. He drew me in with unspoken promises. Had I not suddenly heard a bird shrieking, which threw me out of my trance, I don’t know if I would have been another one of his victims. I don’t remember how I returned to the  cottage. My knees and hands were bleeding, and even my ears had shed droplets of blood.

“It felt so strange to hear again, so foreign and unnatural. I don’t know if I could have spoken, I did not dare to try. For days I sat in my cottage, doing nothing. Even now, when night falls and the snow muffles all, I can hear his unspoken words and his voiceless laughter. A silence so loud and all consuming that no sound would dare to break its grip.”

While I was talking I stood up and walked to the window, shutting its curtains close. I sat down again and looked at Sasha, who seemed righteously distraught.

“You know, there is a difference between quiet and silence. And I can hear it even now.”
