---
layout: post
title: Chapter 14 - Lunch
---

School on Monday was difficult for Lars. He had stayed up way to late and could feel himself dozing away the entire morning. Now, in his political history class, he was mindlessly scrolling through the internet by using his Power World connection. This connection could not be detected by the school’s local network. He wondered how the game did that, since no one else managed to create an untraceable connection like that.

His teacher was sharing his presentation with the class through the visual connection of the student’s brain links. The exact topic, history of constitutions, was a boring drag, a lot of philosophy and theoretical reading. He only absent-mindedly paid attention to the teacher, if at all.

His thoughts trailed, as always in recent days, to Power World. Yesterday’s success had brought them even more new players, some even had higher levels compared to Lars. All in all, Obsidian Star was now seventeen players strong, including Sarah. With that they were very close to upgrading their guild rank.

There were three possible ranks, Minor Guild, Major Guild, and Kingdom. To rank up, a guild had to fulfil certain criteria: Quantity: Have at least 20 members, Rulership: Control at least 5 sectors, and Prominence: Have a level 10 or higher member. Currently Obsidian Star only fulfilled the Prominence criteria, with Sarah’s level 12 character, Obsidian Blade. But soon they could maybe rank up to a Major Guild.

A message reached Lars through the local school network. With a flowery explosion the digital mail opened. ‘Meet me in the cafeteria for lunch. -S’ He smiled. He did enjoy company, but with Sarah it felt different. Often, he did not know the people he hung out very well, friends of friends, acquaintances, and so forth, but despite having met her only a few days ago, he knew her for much longer.

The cafeteria was the communal locale for food, where all three secondary schools came for food. It was always packed full, and many students sat outside, especially on a sunny and warm day like today. Finding someone was very difficult, even on days like these. Lars took his food and then began searching for Sarah.

A new message reached him. ‘In the corner with the disability spaces’ He nodded. Of course, he should have expected that.

The corner Sarah was sitting in was a bit removed from the rest of the cafeteria hall. There were separations between different spaces already, usually with greenery, generally divided along grades, but it was rarely enforced. You could still see everyone; the bushes were around 60 centimetres high.

Sarah waved and Lars sat down across her. He smiled and took a bite from his sandwich. “So,” he said after swallowing, “what do you want to talk about?”

“Oh, uhm, it’s nothing much, I just thought we could have something of an after-action-report, talk over last weeks successes and such.” She fidgeted with her fork.

“Sure!” Lars took another bite. “Anything special? How are the new recruits?”

“Good, I told them how we do things around here. They were interested that I don’t have any taxes and one of them, Celadon Sentry, even told me that they would help out with everything I told them. Apparently, they had been a member of Unknown Constant, but they disbanded that evening after losing their fifth turf battle in a row, so the guild dispersed towards others.”

“What level are they?” Lars asked.

“7. It’s a pretty valuable addition to our roster. Their ability is Eagle Eye, which means their ranged damage is pretty high. We finally have a proper, physical long-distance fighter.”

“Oh good, I began to really notice that in raids and dungeons.” Lars finished his sandwich and laid back into the bench. “There’s also something I wanted to talk about.”

“Yes?”

“We’re almost at twenty members now, which means we have a reasonable chance to rank up soon. I thought that we could take in a few novices as well, I still have my licence from level 4, what do you think?”

“Yes, I was playing with that idea already, but we should be very strategic about it. If we want to outplay the server, we should get someone with real knowledge about servers and stuff like that.” Sarah continued eating.

“That’s a good idea. I have a party coming up tomorrow where there are a few friends from university as well, maybe I can listen around and give them my copy?”

“Hey, Lars” a voice came from one of the other spaces. “What are you doing over there? Come over!” Lars looked around and saw one of his class mates waving him closer.

Lars’ eyes wandered between Sarah and his friend. He was suddenly unsure what to do. Sarah, on the other hand, was just silently observing Lars.

“Uh, I’ll be right back,” he said to Sarah, stood up and went over. “What’s the matter, Phil?” He fist-bumped him.

“Why are you sitting over there, you should be here, with us,” Phil said and laughed. Lars’ eyes narrowed.

“What’s wrong with sitting over there?”

“Do you want people to think you’re one of ‘them’?” He stressed that last word in a weird way that Lars did not enjoy.

Lars sat down and grabbed a cracker from a bowl on the table. Phil, on the other side, drank from his bottle, put it down and continued speaking.

“What’s the matter with you, man? I heard you’ve been walking with her last week as well, she want’s something from you?”

“Even if, what’s it matter to you?”

“Look, you’ve living that bachelor life for two years now, you go to parties, look good, there’s a line of people waiting for you, if you know what I mean. You wouldn’t want to ruin your chances like that, huh?” Phil laughed and others chimed in.

“That’s not cool,” Lars said with a completely neutral tone. “I get to choose who I spend time with. If the people waiting in line for me want something from me, they should have maybe talked to me and told me that.”

“Hang on, is she your girlfriend?” Phil’s jaw dropped. “Is that what’s going on here? A veg…”

“Shut up!” Lars stood up. “We’re friends, okay, we’ve been playing games together for the past months. She wanted to talk to me, so I came here. What kind of problem do you have with that?”

Phil sat back and blinked a few times. “Alright, got it, got it. Touchy subject, eh?”

Lars rolled his eyes, sat back down, and looked back. Sarah had left the table, which confused him. Where had she gone?

“Is there a problem?” Sarah’s voice came from next to him, suddenly. She stood besides him, leaning on her cane. Her face was neutral, all-business expression.

Phil looked at her, top to bottom. “Well, lady, we were just talking about you. You see, there’s a few people around this place who fear you might be a bad influence on our friend here.”

Sarah raised her eyebrow. “A bad influence? In what way?”

“He’s popular with the girls and the boys, and your attention could, maybe, devalue the prospecti…”

Sarah twitched, turned around on her heel and briskly walked out of the space.

Lars stood up, walked around the table to Phil. “Shut it. I won’t stand you talking like this. What the hell do you think you’re doing? If that is the way you talk outside of school as well, then I don’t need any business with you.”

“Woah, calm down, Lars,” one of the other students said. He had laughed at Phil’s comments, now he tried to defuse the situation. “It’s all a joke.”

“It’s not a joke to her. But I guess you’re just too dumb to realize what you’re doing,” Lars rebutted. He was about to turn around and walk away, when Phil held him in place.

“What was that, you punk? What did you say about me?” His face was distorted into an angry grimace.

“I said that you’re too dumb to realize the mistakes you’re making, and I stand by that.”

“Heh, we’ll see about that. You’re stupid for not realizing what kind of life you’re throwing away here. I promise you; you’ll regret this.” Phil laughed and turned back to his group.

His outer side remained calm but internally he was fuming. He had known that Phil could be mean sometimes, but he had just discarded it as an afterthought, now, though, Phil went too far.

He looked around to try and find Sarah again, but she was nowhere to be seen. He opened his messenger and sent a short message to her, asking her where she had gone, but even after a few minutes there was no answer. He thought about where she might have gone. The two places he could come up with were the only ones where he had seen her in the first place, the study hall or the embankment. He chose the latter.

During lunch break the embankment was filled with people eating their lunch by the side of the river. Blankets were laid out left and right, some just relishing in the sun, but Sarah was nowhere to be seen. Instead, Lars was made painfully aware of the others looking at him. Phil’s threat came to mind: Had he already damaged his reputation?

It was impossible, he thought, Phil was overreacting. With that thought he could make peace and continue his search for Sarah. He didn’t really know, didn’t think about what to say to her, just that he had to talk to her again.

The study hall was almost empty. Lars went up to the booth where he had met Sarah for the first time, but to no avail. She wasn’t here either. He looked around and sat down. His face went into his cupped hands, he silently let out a scream, fuelled by his anger over Phil and the desperate look on Sarah’s face.

Eventually the end of the break came up, Lars took his bag and went back to his classroom. Next on his schedule was algebra, which he enjoyed to a medium degree, definitely more than political history. He made his way through the campus to his school, went into the building and walked to, and up the stairs.

On the second floor another student, who leaned against the wall, suddenly spoke. “Ah, what a shame…”

Lars turned around and took a closer look at him. “What?”

“Oh, nothing, just thinking about something.” The student grinned.

Lars shook his head and made his way towards his classroom. His teacher hadn’t arrived yet and Lars sat down on his usual spot at the window. On the other side Phil was whispering with other students. For a moment Lars had the idea of smoothing things over again but decided against it. If anyone had to make amends, it had to be Phil, not him.

Content with that thought Lars went to the subject at hand. He had not finished his homework yet, but thanks to Power World that was no problem. For just 1 point he could browse the internet for one minute. Within seconds he had found the answers he needed and submitted the homework just in time for his teacher to enter the room.

The lesson was occasionally interesting, but most of it was repetition, so Lars’ thoughts quickly trailed away. He checked whether Sarah had read his previous message, but it did not seem so, his message was still unread. Despite this, he decided to write another message where he apologized for the encounter in the cafeteria, and whether they could meet after school to continue their conversation. Content with his wording he sent the message and tried to concentrate back on the lesson.

A few minutes before the end of his school day, Lars finally received an answer. ‘5, C. Santano. Bring a cable. -S’ He sighed in relief. The cryptic message made perfect sense to him. At 5pm, he would have to visit the Café Santano, a popular location for students in the area. Only the request to bring a cable, most likely a direct-link cable, confused him, but he thought nothing much about it.
