---
layout: post
title: Chapter 4 - Knight
---

“To your left! Enemy inbound!” Alabaster called out to Lars. From the boggy water on this stage came a massive crocodile with teeth the size of Lars’ forearm. Its maw clenched down on Cinnabar’s armour, but barely left a scratch thanks to its strong alloy.

Lars ran around the beast and attacked its back with a blade, trying to slice off the thick scales protecting the vulnerable body. With every blow some splinters were taken off, but there was no apparent going through now. 

The crocodile retaliated by shaking Lars off, throwing him back against a mangrove tree. His armour creaked and when he tried to get beck up, he noticed that he had become stuck in the mud.

“Hey, I need some help over here!” Lars shouted to his teammates. The tail of the crocodile had also emerged from the murk water and was teetering above Lars like the sword of Damocles. “Somebody pull me out!”

“Yeah, yeah, I’m coming,” Cinnabar said and ran over to him, grabbed onto his arm and started heaving him out of the water.

“Thanks, mate,” Lars said and turned to the crocodile again. From the thicket came Obsidian, with three smaller crocodiles in tow. Her blade-arms whirled around, cleaving deep scars into the smaller enemies. For a moment Lars stopped in his movement. Just two hours ago he had learned who Obsidian was, really was. Already he had adapted her avatar’s appearance to her real-life appearance. He imagined how her violet eyes were giving light to the violet streak behind the visor.

“Don’t just stand there,” Viridian shouted, “make yourself useful!”

“Yes!” Lars answered and began prying his blade under the scales, trying to use the sword like a lever. As the crocodile’s groans of pain grew stronger, Lars managed to open up a weak point. With his other hand he took a plasma-lance and plunged it into the monster. It reared its head in agony, the erratic movements shook off Lars and Alabaster, who had been trying to attack the maw.

“Oy, what was that for?” Alabaster asked.

“I’ve found a weak spot here, come over!” Lars answered, pointing to the lance embedded in the crocodile. Alabaster looked around, shrugged, and charged towards the beast, grabbing Viridian on the way there.

“Huh? What are you doing, Al?!” Viridian yelled.

“Going where it hurts!”

“You could have warned me beforehand!”

“No time!”

Alabaster ran forward, bating aside the reeds and brushes in its way, Viridian on its shoulder. With a powerful jump it launches itself onto the crocodile, throwing Viridian towards Lars, crashing its fist down onto the lance. The crocodile let out a gigantic scream and started collapsing. Its body crashed into the water. The wave washed over the group and vanished into the swamp.

“Well, that was certainly a thing,” Cinnabar said. It plucked some dirt out of the crevices of its armour. “That was, uh, what? Wave three or four?”

“Four,” Obsidian answered. “But yeah, this was a lot stronger than expected. In general, enemy aggressiveness has gone up over the past weeks. We should be a bit more careful.”

“So, should we log out or summon the next wave?” Lars asked. He leaned against a tree and watched the crocodile disintegrate, a victory screen appearing in its place.

“Let’s heal up and then look what the enemy roster has in store for us,” Obsidian answered. She retracted her blades and glided down to the ground. Her visor moved from one character to the other, staying on Lars for a longer time.

From the jungle emerged another figure, a lightly armoured, black avatar with a grey skull as its head. It stood in the open now with a chainsaw and a shield in its hands.

“Ah, if it isn’t the Obsidians, eh?” the skull-headed avatar said. The revving sound of the chainsaw filled the air. “What a find, what a find!”

“Oh, keep it down, Skully,” Cinnabar said. “It’s good to see you again. You haven’t logged on in a while.” Cinnabar stood up and walked over to the new arrive. 

“Ah, I couldn’t stay away. I came to London from Kent today and when I heard that there is a raid today, I just had to come by. I haven’t honed my combat skills in a while, though, so I won’t be that much of a help, I fear.”

“Oh, it doesn’t matter, we’re all here for fun. The game doesn’t run away either, we can come back whenever we like,” Cinnabar said.

Obsidian had been silent during this exchange. Her visor followed her guild members around, but she never said anything.

“And there they are, Obsidian, my master,” the figure said and made a deep bow.

“Smoke Granite,” she said. “Welcome back.”

“Ah, as short lipped as ever,” Smoke replied.

“So, right back into the fray?” Lars asked. The others, except Obsidian, nodded.

He walked over to the victory screen and pressed the ‘Continue’ button. A path through the jungle opened up and the group continued onwards. The marshy surroundings changed into a castle-like structure, cobblestone floors, high arches. They found themselves in the courtyard, a large plaza under an open, dark sky. Flaming braziers illuminated the area.

“So, the castle stage, eh?” Smoke asked, revving its chainsaw.

“Oh, have you signed up yet?” Viridian asked Smoke, who hit its head with a hand.

“Oh, I’m so stupid, I’ll do it right away.” Smoke opened its menu and signed up for the raid, disabling friendly fire between the characters.

The gates to the castle opened now and a knight strode out, at least 6 metres tall, an imposing figure with a brutal looking, dark great sword in its hands. Without much introduction it slammed its sword into the ground, sending ripples along the ground. The ensuing earthquake threw off the massive Alabaster and Cinnabar, who fell to the ground, Viridian could hold position. Lars managed to jump up in time on a balcony and Obsidian had no problems whatsoever thanks to her hovering ability.

Lars equipped his lance again and jumped towards the helmet, poking the tip through the slits in the visor, but hit nothing behind it. The armour was empty. Viridian, in the meantime, had prepared a salve of grenades which exploded upon contact into clumps of vine and goop that glued the enemy to the ground. This made it easier for Alabaster to land a proper hit, putting a sizeable dent into the metal.

The knight suddenly turned around, using its sword like an oar, batting away the characters. Obsidian got hit the worst, her body crashing into the castle wall. With this attack done, the next assault began, this time with the goal to unseat the helmet and perhaps discover a weak point inside the armour. Smoke jumped up and began cutting through the armour to get inside, defending against incoming ranged attacks with the shield. Eventually an entry was created, and Smoke slipped in.

“Oy, there’s a lot of stuff in here, stop attacking for a hot second,” its voice came from the inside of the armour. The others ceased attacking and the knight began moving in strange and erratic spasms. “Oh, I can control it!”

“What?!” Alabaster and Cinnabar yelled at the same time. They sprinted to the knight and started knocking. “What can you do with it?”

“Ow, that’s really loud in here, stop that!” A short pause followed. “Okay, step back my dudes, I’ll try doing some stuff now.”

With these words the knight made a step forward, took its sword and began some rough movements, then they became more and more sophisticated.

“You plug yourself into this thing and then you control it just like your avatar, this thing is deluxe! I wonder if we can claim this… Oh yeah, here is an inventory button, no, that’s the knight’s inventory. Ah, here, no that’s not it. Maybe in this menu, hmm, can I search for ownership in the settings? No results? Oh wait, there is this thing, yeah, Yeah! I got it!” Smokes’ head poked out of a hatch that had opened. “Who wants this thing?”

“Let’s keep it in our storage for now, we can decide that later,” Obsidian decided.

“If you say so,” Smoke replied, climbed out and put the armour into a communal inventory. The metal figure disintegrated, and a small bolt of energy entered its avatar.

“Very well done, everyone,” Obsidian continued, “with this raid we can look into the Ithnir Questline now, which I know some of you are dying to do, but let’s keep track of where we are. Can anyone level up?”

“Yeah, I can,” Lars replied.

“Great, Lar… uuhm, Azure.” Obsidian moved one of her arms in front of her visor, as if covering her mouth. The others slowly realized what had happened.

“Wait, wait, wait, wait. Hold your horses,” Smoke said. “What was that?”

“Did you just say another name?” Viridian asked.

“Oh, that’s pretty hot, I gotta say that that’s positively spicy,” Smoke commented. Its hand moved across the skull helmet and the voice showed excitement.

Lars sighed and shrugged. “Could’ve been the wind, who knows.” The others looked at him and from the silence he could tell that they were not buying into it. He looked to Obsidian, who had backed down, hiding her visor behind her blades.

“Oh, I can’t believe how stupid I am. I was criticising you for talking to much and not even two hours later I just blurt out something like this, how embarrassing, how humiliating.” Obsidian had landed and sat down on a bench.

“So, you do know each other?” Cinnabar said with astonishment in its voice.

“Yes,” Lars replied, “we know who we are. We met for the first time earlier today.”

“If this thing had a jaw, it’d be on the floor right now,” Smoke said. Alabaster and Cinnabar nodded.

“Yes,” Obsidian said, “I managed to find out who Azure is and met up with him.”

“Hah! I knew you were a boy!” Smoke yelled. Everyone just looked at Smoke. “What, have you never wondered who’s who in here?”

“No, not really,” Alabaster answered. “I don’t mind not knowing your identities. Just makes it more dangerous.”

“Well, that will have to change.” Obsidian had risen again and now hovered into the centre of the group. “I told Azure already, but I have a plan. A big plan that goes beyond the limits of this game.”

“Oh, I’ve come back just in time,” Smoke said.

“Shut up, I want to listen to this,” Viridian commented.

“Yes, I know that this is against the Code, that it is against everything we have been taught about Power World, but I am convinced that it has to happen. I want us to meet up in person, outside the game.”

Only shocked silence followed.

“But why?” Cinnabar asked.

“I will explain this to you later. For now, all you need to know is that, if you don’t want to do this then you don’t have to, but I have made up my mind. Everything Obsidian Star will do from now on will be towards enacting that plan.

“I’ll send you a location, come there this Saturday, 11am. I’ll be waiting for you.” With these words Obsidian Blade logged off.

“Wowie, Azure, you met our master? That’s amazing, man, how are they in person?” Smoke was immediately focused on Lars.

“Dude, calm down. She’s alright.”

“SHE?! The boss is a girl?”

“Excuse me, is there a problem with that?” Cinnabar asked.

“No, of course not, I just never got the girly vibes from her, you know?”

“If you continue like this,” Viridian began, “you’ll soon get no vibes at all anymore.”

“Okay, everyone, calm down,” Alabaster intervened. “So, who is going to go?” 

“I’ll go,” Lars said. “I know her already anyway, so it’s not much of a difference.”

“Yeah, I’ll be there, too. I need to know how you two look,” Cinnabar answered.

“You can count me in,” Viridian agreed.

“Ah, I have to be in Kent that day, what a shame…,” Smoke said.

Only Alabaster hadn’t answered now.

“What about you, big guy?” Viridian asked.

“Oh, I don’t really know yet. On one hand this sounds exciting, but I feel really weird meeting you in person. It just… doesn’t feel right. I mean, I’ve played with you, Cinnabar, for what, four years now? We’ve come along nice and all, but what if we hate each other in the real world? I wouldn’t want it to end like that.”

“Hey, don’t worry, I think we’ll understand each other just as good over there as in here, Al,” Cinnabar assured Alabaster.

“Alright, I’ll… I’ll be there. But I have to go now, food will be done soon. See you on Saturday, then.”

“Yeah, see you on Saturday,” the others replied. With that they each logged off.
