---
layout: post
title: Chapter 6 - Crash
---

“Look, Sarah,” Laith began, “I trust you, I do, but do you think this is a possibility? I never knew Hongkong had a server in the first place.”

Sarah sat there in silence.

“Why would she lie?” Joy asked.

“I’m not saying that she’s lying, I’m asking if this is really the threat, she thinks it is.” He paused. “Well, whatever is the case, I’m in for it if the others are also in. I wouldn’t abandon my guild at any point.”

“Yeah, me neither,” Lars said. “I believe her. I don’t know if it is a thing, but I don’t want Power World to end like that. We could become, like, the secret guardians of our world. That would be really cool, huh?”

“Yeah, it does sound awesome,” Joy agreed.

“This is more than just ‘cool’,” Sarah whispered. “For me this is very serious. I have never been so open to anyone, so I really appreciate your support. I promise that it is a real danger to the game. I’ve seen it, I experienced it.”

The group sat in silence around the table. No one began speaking and the silence started to become more and more awkward. Ben was the first one to pick it up again.

“Safe the world, eh? Well, I’m definitely in. Sounds like just the adventure that I need to stir up my life.” He paused. “If only I didn’t live in Kent…”

“There are a few secrets about Power World that I learned in Hongkong that I haven’t shared with anyone,” Sarah said. “There is a way for you to join from Kent. It’s a bit stupid, but it is possible.”

The others looked at Sarah in wonder.

“We had a thing with the Shanghai server once. A lot of our community travelled to and from Shanghai and we exchanged news from time to time. Then somebody decided to create a connection between the different servers, so that we could play together. What he figured out was that all servers are actually connected to each other directly. We didn’t know how it worked, but apparently there are substations of servers, and Hongkong was once a substation of Shanghai. We could try to create a London substation and install it in Kent. Then you could connect from there.”

“So how do we do that?” Ben asked.

“I don’t know yet,” Sarah replied. She picked up her phone but put it down again immediately.

“Why do you still have one of those?” Joy asked.

“I can’t wear my brain link all the time. I have to take it off, so I use it as a backup,” Sarah answered. “But that is neither here nor there. Let’s get to the point again. Our first step has to be figuring out where the server is located, both inside and outside the game.”

“How? I’ve been to the entire London stage, I think, I’ve never noticed anything,” Laith said.

“That’s the thing where I need your help. I have an idea where it might be, but we need to get access there. I assume that the in-game version of the server is in the Tower of London. That area is always patrolled by the strongest enemies around here, so it would make sense. And when the in-game server is there, the real one might also be there.”

“So, we just buy some tickets to the tower and look for it?” Lars asked.

“No, not quite. The way I imagined it would be that one team is inside the game and breaks through to the server while the others are in the tower. The people inside then overload the server, which should give off a signal that the outsiders could trace and find.”

“That seems like a solid plan, but I feel like there are a lot of hypotheticals in there. What, for example, if the server doesn’t give off a signal?” Laith asked.

“Then we’ll find another way, but for now that is the best I have to offer.”

“Then let’s try it. Let’s go to the tower today and check it out,” Ben said. “I can crash with someone over night, right?”

“My parents aren’t home, it’s only me and my sister, so you could come with me, I guess,” Lars offered. He took a closer look at the person diagonally across the table.

“That’s quite nice of you.”

“Okay, so we got that sorted out,” Laith said. “When are we meeting today?

“How about 8pm? We should have enough time to do our chores and still go to the tower and check out the situation there,” Sarah suggested. The others agreed and the group separated. Lars helped Sarah get out while Ben was watching.

“You can’t walk properly?” he asked.

Sarah sighed. “I rode my bike here and it exhausted me quite a bit. I should take it slow now.”

“I can drive you where you have to go, I have a bike rack on the boot.”

Sarah looked at him and paused. Eventually, she nodded. “That would be very kind of you.”

“Oh, Az, er, Lars, Since I have to come with you anyway, I’m gonna need you to come with me so that you can tell me where to go.”

“Sure thing, but I’m also here with my bike. Do you have more space on that rack?”

“Yeah, no worries, just load ‘em up!”

Together the three went to get the bikes. Lars’ bike was an e-bike with a flame pattern colour coating. Sarah’s bike was an old model of a Dutch bike with no gear transmission. On the handle there were sky-blue tassels, fitting in with her general pastel aesthetic.

Ben’s car was a black SUV with specks of dirt on the lower parts, it had seen its fair share of off-road adventures. On the back, as promised, was a four-bike bike rack, now loaded up with Lars’ and Sarah’s bikes. In the front of the car wear a lot of memorabilia hanging from the rear-view mirror or stashed away here and there. 

Ben moved a large pound-store bag away from the passenger seat to make some space for Lars. Whatever was inside, it made the clanging and dangling sound of metal. The backseats were also utilized to store stuff, including a blanket, two pillows and a cool-storage box.

“Don’t mind the mess, I used to live out of the car for some time.” Ben turned the key and the electric motor purred to life. He adjusted the mirror so that he could see Sarah. “Alright, boss, where are we going?”

Sarah pointed him towards her home, a part of the suburbia in Wandsworth. Ben pulled up to the driveway, took her bike out and sent her off. She thanked him and went into the house.

“Alright, with that done it’s time to get to your place,” Ben exclaimed.

“We have to go shopping first. There’s no food right now and I promised my sister to get something for dinner today and tomorrow,” Lars said.

“Well, what are we waiting for then?”

The grocery store was a maze of aisles weaving through the building. At every corner there were holographic advertisements for sales or limited products, enticing shoppers to buy it. With a single thought they could download the best recipes to the brain link and even order directly through the local network. It was all very easy and convenient.

“So, what do you want to eat, Ben?” Lars asked while pouring over the cereal shelves. He took out some of the boxes, most products contained a mixture of soy and grain as their base.

“I do love me some proper pizza, just dough, sauce, and cheese. Maybe a bit of basil on top. Do you have a pizza stone?”

“Uhm, I don’t know, I’ll ask my sister, she’s been cooking for the past days.” With that Lars sent a quick message to his sister’s brain link. Shortly thereafter the reply came. ‘Yeah, why? Do you want to make Pizza?’

“We have one, yeah,” Lars relayed the information to Ben, who started grinning.

“Oh, perfect, tonight we will feast. I know a great recipe for sauce, just you wait.” He fist-bumped with Lars. “Oh, food is on me,” he added.

Back at home, Nora, Lars’ sister, was surprised at the unexpected guest. She had been working on her own homework when the door opened and she suddenly heard the additional voice, deeper than Lars’. “Who is that?” Nora asked Lars while Ben was outside, getting his luggage from the car.

“A friend from a game. He’s from Kent and needs to stay in London for the night, so I offered my room.”

“Well, as long as he doesn’t trash anything it’ll be fine by me.”

“He’s paid for the food, by the way. And he wants to make the tomato sauce.” Lars chuckled. “He’s pretty confident in his cooking skills.”

“We’ll see whether that confidence is warranted or not.” Nora chuckled and twirled her blonde hair with pink streaks in her fingers. The rest of her face, however, did not show the amusement of her laughter. Her lips were very thin, and her brown eyes had a sense of concern in them.

“Alright,” Ben said after returning, “let’s get this started!” With the occasional remark from Nora, Ben emerged himself in the kitchen, kneading dough, cooking the soup until the pizza went into the oven. When it emerged, it was crispy brown on the crust, red in the centre, with a beautiful cheese melt dotted around the pie.

“Now that is a pizza if I’ve ever seen one,” Ben said and took a slice. “Eat while its hot, folks!” Together they bit into the pizza and Lars had to concede that Ben’s confidence was warranted. The pizza was delicious.

“Wow, this is amazing!” Lars said after finishing his first slice. “You need to tell us this recipe.”

“That is an absolute no-go, this is a family secret,” Ben answered. He shook his head with gravitas.

Lars frowned and took the next slice.

“Man, I’m just joking, I’ve already told your sister how its done, so don’t worry,” Ben added. Nora nodded and gladly bit into the next piece of pizza.

After the meal was finished, Ben and Lars washed the dishes and then went up into Lars’ room. Ben was radiating with glee after seeing all of the posters in the room.

“Damn, boy, those are positively retro! Where did you get some of these?”

“Oh, there was a yard sale three streets over and the owner was a game dev from that time and had all of these posters from going to conventions and the like, PAX, C2E2, that kind of stuff.”

“Ah, I’m so jealous right now, I can’t belief it, seeing some of this stuff in person.”

“I have a few doubles, you can have them, if you want.”

“No way, dude, that’s so rad!”

Lars went over to his closet and took out some poster rolls and threw them towards Ben. “Take you pick, I don’t need them anymore. I’d love them to be in a place where someone appreciates them.”

“My dude…”

“Also, it’s almost 8, we should log on.”

“Hell yeah!”
