---
layout: post
title: Chapter 5 - Meeting
---

The ‘King’s Jubilee’ was a small café in Kensington. Due to the absence of most public transport, especially the magnetic railway, it saw not a lot of customers. It’s defining feature, however, was the focus on privacy. The main room was divided by small walls, so it was hard to see the other customers. Every table also had four high-speed connections to the London Net Exchange, so it was somewhat popular with tech enthusiasts.

This was the place that Sarah had chosen to meet up in. Lars was the first one to arrive, he had cycled here. He waited in front of the door, his back leaned against the wall. After a few minutes a young man arrived, dark skin in a linen shirt. Under his arm he carried a motorcycle helmet and a fitting jacket over his shoulders. He was taller than Lars, who himself didn’t consider him small with his 184 centimetres.

Lars looked, according to London’s standards, normal. His only distinguishing feature, perhaps, was his wild, blonde hair. He had given up on trying to tame it a few months ago and got more and more comfortable with this new look. His brown eyes followed the arriving man, who nodded cordially and went into the café.

Sarah arrived next, she seemed awfully pale and the hand on her cane was twitching slightly. She wore a pastel-coloured jacket and a knee-length dress below that with floral patterns on it. Her shoes did not really match the rest of her appearance, they seemed to large and unwieldy, more like hiking shoes.

“Oh good, you’re here,” she panted. “I made the mistake of cycling here. I should have taken the subway. I’m not making that mistake again.”

“Well, you arrived. Can I lend you a hand?”

“Yes, please,” she answered and clung to Lars’ arm. She took deep breaths.

“Are you… alright?”

“Good question. Do I look alright?” Sarah smirked in amusement.

“No?”

“Well, there you have your answer. My body has been acting up lately and my medicine hasn’t helped all day.” She paused. “I’m going in and sit down.”

“Yes, that’s a good idea.”

The inside of the café was dimly lit, a server hushed through the room. Sarah walked to one of the tables and sat down. She put her cane against the wall and leaned back into the cushioned back. From her bag she pulled out a small flag with a suction cup at the end of the pole and the logo of her guild, Obsidian Star on it. She plopped it onto the table and took out her phone, an almost paper-thin screen with no bezels.

“It feels weird seeing our logo here, in real life,” Lars said and looked at the small flag. “Did you make this?”

“Yeah, I dabble in crafts and stuff like that. It helps my mind be occupied when I’m stuck at home.”

“How often does stuff like that happen? I mean, that you’re stuck at home?”

“Every once in a while.” It was clear she didn’t want to talk about it further.

The dark-skinned man approached the table. “Well, well, well. Now who’s who? Me, I’m Cinnabar Spell.”

Lars stood up and extended his hand. “Azure Sky, good to meet you, buddy.”

“Ey, Azure, can’t believe it. And I assume this is our master?”

Sarah nodded. “Yes, I’m Obsidian Blade. It is a pleasure to meet you in person, Cinnabar.”

“Ah, let’s do away with the tags. I’m Laith.” He smiled a very broad smile.

“Lars.”

“Sarah.”

“Lars and Sarah, wonderful. Well, if you don’t mind…” He sat down next to Lars, put his hands behind his head and looked at his mates. “I’ve got to say, this is pretty weird. Just a few days ago we were nobody to each other and suddenly we sit here. Kinda hard to believe, really.”

“Yes, I agree,” Sarah said.

“Honestly, I think this is great,” Lars said. “I’ve always wondered who the others were. I know how dangerous that could be, but I did want to meet some of you at some point. And now I finally get to see the faces behind those helmets and visors. It’s awesome, really.”

“Well, well, we’ll see who else turns up, won’t we?” Laith said.

The door opened, the bell chimed and a person in baggy clothes came in. A hoodie two sizes larger than it should be, wide pants and a beanie hiding the hair. They looked around, saw the flag, and slowly approached the table.

“Hi,” the person said with a medium to high-pitched voice that was full of uncertainty. “so, you’re Obsidian Star?”

“We sure are,” Laith replied and scooted aside, making a free space for the person.

“Well, I’m Al. Alabaster Spike. Uhm, you can just continue calling me Al, or Alex.”

“Al it is,” Laith said. Lars and Sarah nodded.

Carefully Al sat down and looked at the others.

“I’m Laith, Cinnabar, that is.” He smiled.

“Azure Sky, at your service. But you can call me Lars.”

“I’m Obsidian Blade.”

“It is an honour to meet you, my master,” Al said and bowed before Sarah.

“Please, just call me Sarah here, it feels really weird otherwise.”

“Yes, of course.”

“So, we’re only missing Viridian now?” Lars asked, looking around the group.

“Seems so,” Laith replied. He had taken the menu into his hands and was eagerly reading what the café had to offer. “Man, they have some good coffee here, take a look at this!” He turned the menu around for the others to see. On the page there was a long list of exotic coffees. “I’ll have the Japanese siphon, I think. What about you?”

“Tea,” Sarah answered. “Black, no milk, no sugar.”

“If you take the siphon, I’ll do that as well,” Lars said.

“Water,” Al answered, shuffling around in their hoodie.

The door opened again, and a young girl came in, black hair with green stripes in it. She wore almost exclusively black and shoes with soles that made her almost 5 centimetres taller than she actually was. She looked around, went to the bar and ordered a cup of black coffee before she noticed the flag. She smiled, a very cheery look on her, and waved. She told the server to bring it to the table and made her way over there.

“Damn, all of you already here? I guess this time I’m the late one.” She looked around the table. “Don’t say it, I wanna guess who’s who.” She stroked her chin, then pointed to Laith. “You’re Alabaster, you in the hoodie, you’re Azure, the one in the back with the spiky hair, you’re Cinnabar and you, pastel girl, you are Obsidian.”

Sarah chuckled. “It’s amazing how you got almost everyone completely wrong. You only guessed me correctly.”

“Oh.” The girl pouted. “So, who are you then?”

“Cinnabar, but the name’s Laith here.”

“Azure Sky, Lars.”

“I’m Al.”

“Well, you already know me. Call me Sarah.”

“I’m Joy,” the girl said. “Viridian Shield.” She sat down next to Sarah. The waitress came, they all gave their orders and waited eagerly for Sarah to speak.

“Well, you must all be interested why we are meeting here,” she began but was interrupted by another person barging into the room. Clad in a rocker jacket, swinging car keys around his finger he looked around and saw the group with the flag. He opened his arms and strode up to them.

“My mates, can’t believe I still made it!” Everyone looked at him in confusion.

“I’m sorry, what?” Lars asked. “Wait, Smoke?”

“The very same, my dudes, I told the boss that I had something urgent coming up and couldn’t work today so I ran the car up the country to London. I didn’t want to miss this.”

“Well, what a surprise!” Laith said pointed to the last free space next to Joy. Smoke sat down and looked around.

“Ben, by the way, but you can call me Big B.”

“Big Bee? As in, the animal?” Lars asked.

“Nah, the letter, you dumbass,” Ben replied and stuck his tongue out.

The others quickly introduced themselves and Sarah could continue with her announcement.

“As I was saying, you are all interested in why I have asked us all to meet in person. I want to digress for a moment and tell you a bit about myself, that’ll make this clearer.” She cleared her throat and the drinks arrived.

“When I was 12 my father got a position as an assistant manager in Hongkong, and we moved there. It was in Hongkong that I got invited into Power World. We weren’t the biggest server, but we had a lot of fun. The community was very active and there were raids happening almost every day, with some hangouts and get-togethers in the game. We were very competitive but always separated the game from our personal relationships. I made a lot of really good friends over there.

“A few years in, by that time I had led my guild to a lot of turf war victories and was one of the top players on the server, the server suddenly went offline. No one knew what was happening. Suddenly our game, all the friends we had made, had vanished. A week later the server wen online again, but it had changed. Someone installed a new version of Power World on it.

“This new version changed the game completely. I am sure you are all aware of the abilities the game gives you in the real world, logging into the internet through local networks, increasing your ability to memorize things, boosting your awareness, and so forth. With this new version we had suddenly gained powers even beyond that. We had suddenly access to the technology around us.

“We could read the data from other brain links, we could break firewalls and encryptions, we could remotely control phones, cars, transports, doors, even some other brain links, we were walking through the city with almost complete control of our surroundings. We were a walking security risk; we could hack with our thoughts by establishing direct links to the technology around us.

“This, as we discovered soon, came at a price. Three days later enemies showed up in the game that went far beyond any of us. Hydras, dragons, leviathans, foes so strong that they quickly decimated the low-level players. From our healthy player base of around 250 players, after a month there were only seventeen left. We had also run out of licences to copy the game. The server was dying.

“From those seventeen players some decided to permanently log off, spend their points sparsely and never play again. In the end we were twelve players who had decided that something must change. We banded together and took on these enemies. For sixteen hours we fought against these insurmountable foes, who had, by then, infested the entire world, and in the end, we managed to slay two of them. Dark Star killed a dragon, but was killed by a giant snake, and I slew a hydra and escaped with my points and game intact.

“With my father’s time in Hongkong coming to an end we moved back to England, to London. By changing the city, I had also lost my newfound powers, but out of fear I did not log into London’s server until recently. I feared that it had suffered the same fate, but I was wrong. London was alive and well. I transferred my points from Hongkong to London and started playing again. I founded my guild here, Obsidian Star, and slowly I got some members, of which you are the core members.

“Before you ask, I don’t know the others, but you are the most active ones, so I decided to trust you. I hope I have not misplaced that trust. My main point, however, is this: If it happened to Hongkong, it could happen to London as well. I love this game with all my heart, my brightest memories in life are connected to it, I don’t want to lose it again. So, I have made a decision. I would personally ensure that London would not suffer that fate.

“I soon discovered that this was no easy task. To protect the server, I would need to know where, and what, it is. I need to know what our enemy actually is. To do that I needed allies. And you are these allies. So I ask you: Will you help me keep Power World alive?”
