---
layout: post
title: Chapter 7 - Tower
---

Lars’ avatar, Azure Sky materialized in the London stage. Power World had multiple stages where players could battle. The biggest one was the London stage, a one-to-one representation of London. The other stages were smaller and had their own set of features and also saw more use in general.

One of the reasons for that was that the London stage had transitions, where the surroundings suddenly changed. At one point London was made out of smooth, glass-like buildings, then the other moment the buildings were made out of a strange amalgamation of rust, brick, and thick vines with terrifying spikes. 

This time the stage was in the jungle mode, the buildings were totally overgrown. Some of the skyscrapers were replaced by giant trees. The foliage blotted out the sun in many places. It was currently day here, the stage cycles between day and night every 2 hours.

Ben appeared right next to him. One of the other important features of the London stage was that one always appeared where they were in the real world as well.

“Ah, how I missed this,” Ben sighed and jumped into the air. His avatar, the skull-headed Smoke Granite, had incredible jumping power thanks to his enhanced armaments.

“Did you get to play anything in Kent?” Lars asked. He had activated his jetpack to keep up with Ben.

“Just some normal stuff, nothing like Power World. There’s just nothing else like this game. And now we’re on a cool undercover quest to save it, that’s rad. We’re making it into our own thing. Play against the rules, look for the server. Dude, this is amazing.” He continued jumping across the buildings towards central London. 

They took a path along the Thames embankment. This would lead them directly to the tower. The river itself was represented not by water, but a gigantic, gaping void that descended deep into the underground. In there were some of the most dangerous dungeons the game had to offer, some of the few that had a level restriction to enter.

Lars was level 6 now, which meant he was higher than most other players, but still far away from the top players. The highest level he knew off was a level 13 player, Sanguine Solar. They were the master of Ardent Watcher, a guild operating in the centre of London. They would have to cross into their territory eventually.

Ben was level 3, since he had not played in some time and was still on the lower side of levels. Still, he had spent his points wisely. He had rarely levelled up and instead invested in speed and defences – his chainsaw was more of a decoy; his most deadly attacks came from his shield.

Flashes of lightning and explosions came from below in the Thames Crater. At this time of day, the London stage was a very populated area, since most people had time to do raids and quests now. This also meant a lot of danger to the other players: While most decided to earn points through quests, that was a measly amount compared to what you could get fighting another player. There was a subculture of PvP fighters, who earned points by challenging other players. They were kitted out for this and exactly this purpose.

That is why a player travelling alone always had to be careful to evade other players. If they were a PvP fighter, then they could issue a challenge and a duel would begin, that usually ended in favour of the aggressor, due to their specific gear.

The only way to end a duel was to either wait until the time ran out, resulting in a draw, win, or manage to escape. Trying to escape was hard, but possible. A player trying to escape had to select ‘Escape’ as their next move and then an escape sequence would begin, where they had to follow a very specific path through the battlefield. If the escapee traversed the path within one minute, they were free.

From Lars’ and Ben’s right side, across the Thames, came another figure dashing along the overgrown rooftops. It was a rust-brown avatar riding a motorbike with full speed towards central London. Lars and Ben hid behind a bush jutting out of a window. The other player didn’t see them.

Eventually they crossed into guild territory. The outskirts of London were usually not claimed by any guild, but here, in the centre, a lot of turf wars were fought. Every Sunday the guilds fought for control over the different sectors in which the stage was divided. Depending on which sector they controlled determined the buffs the guild members could get in their quests. The most fought-over sector was City of London, which increased the point gain, one of the most powerful effects in the game.

The skyscrapers drew ever nearer and with them the other guild members. Obsidian Star was allied to two other guilds, Gusty Garden and Queen’s Landing. Of the two only Gusty Garden owned territory in central London. Queen’s Landing, like Obsidian Star, were fighting on the outskirts of the city. Less powerful effects, but also less dangerous.

The first territory they entered was Fulham, one of the less contested sectors in London. Unknown Universe had owned the sector for years now and defended it with an iron fist. Next was Chelsea, Westminster-South, Covent Garden, and finally City of London. It was currently controlled by Gold Saucer, who had been beaten badly the outsiders of Obsidian Stars just a few days prior.

There was one more thing special about City of London: It was not subject to transitions. It always stayed the same, since some of the most important infrastructure in the game was located there. The central item shop, the Greater London Quest Board, the Peacekeeper Inn, and the Warp Gate were all here. These were traditionally considered a no-fight zone and every guild owning the sector had to enforce those rules, as well as defend the locations from enemies crawling out of the Thames.

The City was, just like in real life, full of Skyscrapers, connected by balconies and platforms. They all shared the same matt-black aesthetic with art deco elements. The windows were also dark, but still see-through, but most of the buildings were empty anyway. They just served as one of the most intricate battlefields with a lot of possibilities for collateral damage. Destroyed buildings reformed each day at midnight.

Lars and Ben made their way down from the rooftops to the ground and walked along the embankment now. In front of them stood the Tower of London, the imposing monument in the centre of London’s Power World. It was also the tallest building here, a spiralling ascent, twisting itself into the sky. It was defended by multiple walls manned with auto-firing turrets, traps everywhere, and the streets around it were patrolled by high-level enemies. Only few ever made it past the outer defences and into the tower proper, and even fewer survived long enough to tell what was going on in there. And this was the place that Sarah wanted them to enter, at some point.

“Well, would you look at that. The Tower of London. I never thought I’d be this close to it, like, ever,” Ben said and sat down. He put his arms behind him and looked up. “How high do you think it goes? The top is always hidden behind clouds.”

“I never really thought of it,” Lars answered. “I also tried to keep my distance. I value my points, especially since I just levelled up. I don’t want to lose them now, that would be terrifying.”

“Yeah, that’s right,” Ben said. His avatar scratched his chin. “Still, here we are. I sure hope the boss has a plan.”

“She always has one.”

“That’s also true, my man.”

Together they looked at the tower until another player approached them. They wore a purple armour with a silvery crown on their head. “You think you can take that one on?”

Lars and Ben turned around, immediately weary of the newcomer.

“Don’t worry, I’m no PvP type. My name is Violet Thunder.”

“Wait, the master of Lightning Strike?!” Lars cried and took a few steps back.

“The very same, but don’t worry, I’m not here to do anything to you, I’m just coming through. I had hoped to get a ferry to the other side of the Thames, but the next on comes in 30 minutes and now I have to kill some time.

“You seem awfully chill for a master, dude,” Ben said.

“Really? Heh, I guess it comes from my experience. Yelling never gets you anywhere, just skill.”

“Aren’t you afraid of someone challenging you here? What if another master comes by and decides to do away with you?” Lars asked. He had wondered that about Obsidian Blade before as well, but never asked her.

“We masters aren’t stupid enough to try that. It would just spell disaster for both of us, so we let the others stay in peace, mostly. During turf wars that’s a bit different, of course, but otherwise we can go by pretty unbothered.”

“Huh, interesting. So, I just have to become a guild master to be safe? Easy-peasy. I’ll put it on my agenda,” Ben said and laughed.

“Do I hear treason, Smoke?” Sarah’s voice came from behind them. Her black and violet avatar hovered on a building.

“Oh, no, no, boss, never would I ever…”

“I know.” She turned towards Violet Thunder. “I am honoured to meet you, Purple Thunder.”

“The honour is mine, Obsidian Blade. I always wondered when I’d get to meet you. We operate on other sides of the city, after all,” Violet Thunder said.

Sarah hovered down from her spot on the building and stood next to the other guild master now. They both bowed before each other.

“Oho, did you grow up on an Asian server?” Violet Thunder asked.

Sarah stopped mid movement. “Why?”

“That bow we just did; they don’t really do that over here. It’s an Asian thing, as far as I know.”

“Hm, I didn’t know that,” Sarah replied. She looked to Lars and Ben. “Yes, I’m from Asia. I was on the Hongkong server before, uhm…” She stopped.

“Hongkong, you say? Wasn’t that the one that suddenly got abandoned? I heard that from one day to the other there were no players there anymore. What happened?”

Sarah paused and looked at the other master. She chose her next words very carefully. “We were attacked. By enemies stronger than any we had seen before. Within a month almost 200 players had lost all their points. The stages had become so dangerous that no one dared to log on anymore. That’s what happened.” She turned away and looked towards the other side of the chasm.

“Attacked by enemies? But why? Strong enemies never attack low levels unless provoked,” Violet Thunder asked.

“We thought that as well. It still happened,” Sarah answered. “By the way, which server are you from?”

“Tokyo. I’m studying here.” Violet leaned against a street pole. Their body was thin and seemed very rigid, so they were almost completely tilted to the side, only the head really moved.

“Do you like it here?” Ben asked. “I personally was glad when I left London. The sea air is far better.”

“I do like it. But if you’re not in London anymore, how are you here?”

“I’m visiting my old guild mates, obviously.” Ben laughed heartily. “I really missed this game, you know. Couldn’t imagine life without it, really.

“Yeah, I’m feeling similar,” Purple said. “I hope this never ends.”

Sarah looked at Violet for a while. “It can end,” she said eventually. “I’ve seen it. A server being extinguished. If it happened to Hongkong it can happen to London as well.”

Violet Thunder stood back up and walked closer towards Obsidian Blade. Their beady, white eyes were turned entirely towards Sarah. For a moment no one spoke. “How did it happen?”

“The server went offline for a few days. When it went back on somebody had installed a new version of Power World, a much more dangerous one. I don’t know why, I don’t know how, but I won’t let it happen again. Me and my guild, we decided to protect London from such a fate, no matter what,” Sarah answered.

“In the short time we have met, I admire you, Obsidian Blade. And you have given me a lot to think about. When we meet again, I might have something more to say. Until then, farewell. May your task succeed.” With these words Violet Thunder turned their back to the others and walked away.

“What a strange person,” Ben said. “I always imagined the other masters to be somewhat like that numbskull Crimson Suit or the self-absorbed Cerulean Vanquisher.” He shrugged. “You learn something new everyday.”

“Why did you tell them of our task, Obsidian?” Lars asked.

“I had the feeling that she might get what this is about. She knew about Hongkong. I decided to be honest with her. Honesty, I have learned, usually pays its dividends. We will need allies if we want to protect London and having another guild at our side that also dedicates itself to this goal, then we’ll have a chance.”

“I see, that makes sense,” Lars said.
