---
layout: post
title: Chapter 13 - Sector
---

Lars’ bedroom clock struck 7:45pm, which meant that the turf war was about to begin. He logged onto the server again and made his way to Richmond, the sector Obsidian Star had controlled for the past weeks. It was their only sector. It was rarely contested, also due to its very week benefit: A flat boost to speed. It suited Lars but was not very interesting to most other players.

The stage was still in the same mode of the morning, the City of Stone. Its futuristic aesthetic gave battles a chilling atmosphere. When he arrived at the central plaza, his other guildmates were mostly there already. Besides his core team of Cinnabar, Viridian, and Alabaster, the other members had logged on as well.

There was Grey Silence, a status effect inflicting avatar with a penchant to secrecy, Brass Wand, a thin and small avatar with fire-based abilities, Chestnut Daisy, who often pairs up with Viridian because they both use area-of-effect abilities, and Aquamarine Wing, who can summon large amounts of water to wash away enemies. The only player missing was Smoke, obviously, but also their guild master, Obsidian Blade.

“Did Obsidian tell you already what’s happening today?” Lars asked.

Cinnabar nodded, as did Viridian. “She contacted us a few minutes ago about her plan, and that we should keep an eye out for Gold Saucer players who might be out for revenge,” Laith said, “there’s been one on our trail for the past few hours.”

“I’ve seen one as well,” Grey Silence said. “Do you think they’ll come for Richmond?”

“I don’t know,” Lars said, “but they’ve been angered again earlier today. Obsidian took out around twelve of them right in front of Red Nose.”

“Why the hell would she do that!?” Brass Wand asked. “Don’t we have enough problems already?”

“They were defending me. I’ve been ambushed this morning and, luckily, they were around and could safe me from a pretty nasty disconnect.”

“Well, okay, then,” Brass Wand said and sat down.

The sound of a great bell echoed through the city, signalling the beginning battles. Now there was a free for all, for one hour there were fights all over the city to claim, conquer, and defend different sectors.

At first there was nothing much happening, but after 30 minutes a large force of Gold Saucer players arrived at the eastern borders of the sector. Behind them, up on a platform, was Red Rose.

“Get them! Take their sector away! Get your points back!” They screamed and pointed to the Obsidian Star players. Lars and his mates were outnumbered three to one, with most of their enemies being higher-level players.

“Oh, this is bad, this is really bad!” Cinnabar said. “I never would have thought that they want revenge so bad that they would come with such a large force.”

“We must think quickly now, we either need to abandon Richmond and claim another, more secure sector, or we fight and defend,” Alabaster said. They put their fists together and entered a defensive stance.

“It seems you’ve already made up your mind,” Viridian said.

“Our orders were to defend, so I will defend.”

“So be it!” Cinnabar yelled and stood next to Alabaster, awaiting the approaching army. “We will not falter, we will not back down!”

Red Nose laughed. “Put them through the Wheel of Fortune!” Above his head appeared a big wheel of fortune, which immediately began spinning wildly. As it slowed down, one of the fields was selected by the ability. “Carousel Cavalry!”

The approaching members of Gold Saucer suddenly gained mounts, carousel horses that became a terrifying stampede, directly towards the plaza.

“Get ready!” Lars yelled and charged up a chain lightning move. He hoped that he could dismount multiple players. Behind him Viridian also activated a move, creating a barrier of plants and roots to divert the cavalry into two parts with a safe space in the middle.

Lars discharged, the bolt hit the first enemy, then sparked to two others, then again. Those who got hit screamed, their horses disappeared as soon as they were thrown out of the saddle. Aquamarine Wing then summoned a wave to push those back towards Red Nose again.

Then the cavalry arrived, cutting deep swathes through the plaza, jumping over the barricades right into the players. With manic laughter one member of Gold Saucer swung a gigantic sledgehammer around, landing a nasty hit against Grey Silence. They were thrown back and into the cavalry, who quickly reduced their hit points by simply trampling over them. A pillar of light erupted, and they were disconnected.

“This is going really bad,” Brass Wand said while scaring some of the horses away with fire. Flamethrowers and fireballs erupted left and right, the radiant heat blasting the enemies away. In the resulting dust and ash some fires were still burning along, but most enemies showed themselves undeterred.

“This is no fight; this is a slaughter!” Chestnut Daisy screamed as a gun-wielding enemy approached them. “What are we supposed to do against this?”

“I have no idea, just hold out!” Lars answered. He had entered direct combat with another Gold, who wielded a piledriver. Lars managed to dodge the attacks, trying to come ever closer to his enemy, but they jumped back as another horse rider jumped between the two duellists.

Over it all, Red Nose’s manic laughter put an eery, ridiculous atmosphere over it. A mixture of snorting and honking they were reeling in the glee of their guild’s revenge.

A huge explosion erupted directly in front of Red Nose. With the strength of the sun a blast threw them back against a wall. The horses suddenly disappeared.

“Huh, what?” Red Nose yelled and looked around.

“You are not the only one interested in Richmond this night, Red Nose.” Sanguine Solar stood above the clown avatar. “I hope you brought your best here today, because I have.”

“Don’t mess with me, Sangy, this is none of your business!” Red Nose turned around and prepared another attack, but Sanguine Solar jumped down and thrust a spear into their body. They coughed and screamed of pain.

“This is a turf war, of course it is my business. I want Richmond, so I will fight everyone who tries to stop me. That’s just how the game works.” They turned the spear around, pulled out and began a next attack, which Red Nose parried using a sugar cane as a weapon. With unbelievable speed they went on trying to use a retributive attack, but this time Sanguine Solar managed to defend. The speed at which their flurries of attacks impacted on each other created blast waves that threw back the other players.

“So that’s how it looks when two high-level players fight each other,” Viridian said, looking onto the combatants in awe. The rest of Red Nose’s underlings had come to the help of their master, but then the Ardent Watcher members arrived and occupied them in an all-out battle, leaving Obsidian Star in relative peace, for now.

One of the Ardent Watchers approached Obsidian Star. “Quick, you should go to Bermondsey, Blade struck a deal with Solar, you have a new sector.” They put a thumbs up and went back into battle.

The guild members looked at each other, shrugged, and decided to follow the opinion. Richmond was lost anyway, so they might as well try to figure out what has happened with Obsidian Blade. They ran along the Thames Chasm towards Central London. It took some time to get there, even using the high-speed pathways that had been installed along the embankment. After twenty minutes they had arrived.

What they saw was terrifying and awesome at the same time. On top of a fountain stood Obsidian Blade, the plaza was filled with the corpses of at least 50 other players. As they arrived, she nodded to them and hovered down.

“Welcome to Bermondsey, our new sector.”

“What?” Brass Wand asked, “But how? Why?”

“When I discovered that Red Nose had decided to fight for Richmond, Sanguine Solar and I made a deal: I would help them conquer the City of London, and we would get Bermondsey in exchange for control of Richmond. They were actually interested in the additional speed, but they don’t need that offensive power provided by Bermondsey. I took the opportunity, and now we have a new, different sector to our name.

“With the City conquered and staffed with Ardent Watchers, Solar went off to deal with Red Nose in Richmond. I defended Bermondsey in the meantime. As you can see, it went pretty well.” She gestured towards the disconnected players.

“Unbelievable,” Cinnabar said, “and that was you alone? All of these?”

“Yes,” Sarah answered, “Ardent Watcher retreated without fight, as promised, so I just had to defend, which went rather well.”

The bell rang again, the turf battles had ended, the sector owners for the next week were determined. Lars opened up a map of the sectors and looked at it. Not much had changed, except that Richmond and City were now controlled by Ardent Watcher, and Bermondsey by Obsidian Star. There were a few changes on the outskirts, but nothing major.

“I can’t believe that we have a sector in central London now,” Lars said. “This will be a horror to defend next Sunday.”

“I hope to strike a proper alliance with Lightning Strike on the other side of the chasm soon, and we are right next to Queen’s Landing. With that triple alliance, and hopefully some more members now that we have a proper sector to our name, we should manage just fine.” Sarah sat down.

The guild remained in silence for a moment, then Sanguine Solar showed up. “You have fought well and earned yourself a token of appreciation, Right Honourable Obsidian Blade. You have held up to your oath, which I hold in great regard.” They bowed. “I have been informed that this is a customary gesture from your original server.”

Sarah bowed as well. “Indeed, it is.”

Sanguine Solar stood up again. “Do not mistake me, this is not an alliance, merely a pact of non-aggression, a truce. But, if your guild desires such, this can be the foundation for future relations.” They waited for a moment. “Your fighting style is wild and frightening. Just yesterday I said that our guilds may never face each other on the battlefield, and here we are, not face to face, but side by side. It is a pleasing development.”

“I think so as well, Right Honourable Sanguine Solar. There are few reasons for strive between us, it is our enemies which bond us together. I look forward to our next meeting,” Sarah said and finished the conversation. Sanguine Solar retreated to their own sector.

“Won’t Gold Saucer be even more angry at us now?” Alabaster asked.

“No, I don’t think so, they’ve been beaten three times in a week, they must have got the message by now. And it is more likely that their wrath will go towards Ardent Watcher, and they’ll manage just fine.”

Three players came towards the fountain from the embankment. One was a tall, almost perfectly cylindrical figure with a yellowish colour, one had cubic, grey featured and a fake pair of glasses, and the last one was a very pink and small figure. They looked at the group and then continued walking towards them. They bore the crest of Gold Saucer.

Obsidian Star was alarmed. What did this mean? Where these messengers from Red Nose?

“Obsidian Blade,” the player with cubic features began, “we wish to join your guild.” This surprised Lars, and Sarah as well.

“Why are you forsaking your own guild, Gold Saucer?” Sarah asked,

“Red Nose has, in his fury, taken all points from the fourth person in our team. They had their program forcefully uninstalled. So, we decided that that guild was not fit for us. Your guild, however, has shown to be caring and willing to enter alliances. We appreciate that and would therefore humbly ask to join you.”

“Very well,” Lars said, “but what are your names?”

The cylindrical spoke first. “I’m Ochre Maiden, and my two friends here are Silver Mind and Magenta Nebula.”

Sarah hovered towards them and stood silently for a few seconds. Silver Mind was shaking and tried to hide behind Ochre Maiden. This menacing display concluded when Sarah extended her arm. “Welcome to Obsidian Star, Ochre Maiden, Silver Mind, and Magenta Nebula. But know this: Our guild has a mission beyond the sector battles and continued playtime. We see ourselves as the true guardians of Power World, we will see to its continued prosperity.”
