---
layout: post
title: Chapter 8 - Enemy
---

The others arrived soon afterwards. With them all together, Sarah could explain her strategy:

“We will stay as a group and never split up, no matter what happens. If on logs out we all log out, okay?” The others nodded. “We will approach an enemy here and test how strong it is, what the weak points might be. I don’t want to slay it yet, I want it to technically win against us because I don’t want to alarm anyone – or anything – that might be controlling these things, got it?” More agreeing nods.

“We’ll attack from the west and try to get into the first ward. There should be plenty of enemies there and we can bait one out, where we will attack it outside of the reach of the turrets. Does anyone have to say something to that plan?”

“No, it seems like a solid idea,” Joy said and loaded her avatar, Viridian Shield, with a repeating gun. “I’m ready for some violence!”

“Yeah, let’s do this!” Laith yelled and pumped his fist in the air. His avatar began moving towards the gate, an imposing structure with medieval elements, a moat and lowered drawbridge. Behind the gate was a field with square tiling, with a glossy black sheen to the smooth stone. Patrolling across the field were huge monstrosities, metre-high snakes, two-headed giants, something that looked like a mixture between a squid and a lion.

Laith charged in with a lance in his hands. He fired a distraction shot from the point of the blade to lure one of the beasts towards him. The red flare traversed the plain and exploded in a puff of smoke right into the face of the squid-lion chimera. It reared its ugly head towards Laith and roared. The tentacles jittered and released disgusting looking slime.

“Oh boy, here we go!” Laith yelled and backed up before the turrets could aim at him. The monster was undeterred and continued approaching him, its sharp claws clicking on the floor.

“Everyone, ready yourself!” Sarah yelled and turned her bladed armour into its combat mode. Her arms and leg sprouted blades with sharp, pointe tips that could double as spears. The edges glowed slightly violet and the air around them was wafting as if the blades were scalding hot.

“You know, guys, I suddenly have the idea that this was a terrifyingly daft idea,” Ben said. He was hiding behind a corner. “I’m level 3, goddammit, I shouldn’t be here at all!”

“You are a member of Obsidian Star!” Sarah yelled. “Act like one!”

“Yessir! Always!” Ben answered and returned to his position.

The monster had now made its way to the drawbridge and stepped outside of the tower ward. It roared again and the tentacles began lashing out against Alex, who had stepped to the frontline as the group’s dedicated tank. Next to them stood Lars, whose close and medium combat potential matched up well with the bludgeoning attacks of Alex.

Alex’s marble body was naturally resistant against most corrosives, so they had no problem withstanding the slime, but Lars had to dodge out of the way of the acidic attack. The monster unveiled its circular maw with many, many teeth. Spit and slime drooped out of it.

“That is disgusting,” Joy said. She put her feet down and her hands together. Green light emanated from her hands and in a circle underneath of the chimera. “Green Growth!” She had a habit of giving her attacks names and loved to shout them out. From the ground sprouted green vines that twisted themselves around the legs of the enemy and tied it to the ground, but the claws managed to easily cut through the plants. It prepared to jump towards Joy, a mighty leap over Alex and Lars.

“I’ve got you!” Laith yelled and an explosive salve hit the monster’s belly, throwing it off its intended path. It fell down to the side, helplessly wiggling its six feet around, trying to get up.

“Good shot!” Sarah said and moved into melee range. Her right blade shot into the body of the chimera, the wound burning up due to her heated blades. A roar of pain reverberated from the buildings, but before Sarah could go in for the next attack, the monster jumped back to its feet and engulfed Sarah in its tentacle maw.

“Eeh, that is disgusting!” Sarah screamed and her body cut itself out of the maw, severed tentacles falling down left and right. Blood and slime shot out of the wounds, splashing onto the ground. Where they hit the floor began to melt and smoke.

From the back Ben came charging towards the beast, his shield in hand. “Have a taste of my Ultimate Shield!” he yelled and thrust it against the wound. Hot steam came off, cauterizing the wounds so that they no longer spewed their slime.

Joy then took out her own weapon, a short, green wand, and began tracing a glyph in the air. The green letters compacted, and a healing aura surrounded the players, buffing their defences. “Get it!” she said to the others.

“We’re on it,” Lars answered and charged forwards with his lance in both hands. The tip began glowing blue and white, the air spiralled around it. This was a new move that he had learned during his last level-up. The lance connected to the body, entering the beast, but the pain-fuelled jerking movements threw him off balance and he was hurled against a nearby wall. He could see his hit points depleting in the top right of his field of vision. “I’m getting pretty low here!” he yelled to the others.

“Yeah, same here,” Alabaster said. They had been on the beasts tail for a while, trying to keep it in place. The massive stone hands squeezed down on the tail, bringing the monster closer to raging.

“Do you want to leave?” Sarah asked, looking back. She had begun cutting her way along the neck, her blades creating deep scars in the fur. She looked like a single whirlwind of blades, constantly striking again as if she was three times faster than the others.

“I think that would be a good idea,” Laith said. He loaded a new pack of ammunition in his gun and began blasting the beast, this time with elemental rounds in order to find out whether it had a vulnerability against some types of damage, but without many results so far.

“Alright, retreat, everyone!” Sarah pointed towards the embankment. “Begin escape sequence!”

Lars nodded and selected the Escape from Fight button in his HUD. Almost instantly the escape path lit up and he dashed along. The route led him weaving through the buildings with the monster still on his tracks. Under his health bar he could see the timer slowly ticking down, first 50 seconds, then 40, 30, 20, and the escape point was still not in sight.

The others had gotten different escape paths, so they had to reconvene at some point, but right now only escaping counted for him. 10 seconds. Still nothing. 5. Another corner. 4. 3. 2. 1.

The mechanical announcer voice called out to him: “Escape Sequence Failed. Commence Combat.”

“Guys, I need help, I couldn’t escape!” Lars screamed, hoping that someone was nearby. Behind him the monster wrought destruction to the city, its roaring screams loud enough that he did not have to look back to find out how near it was. It was right on his heels.

Lars ran for his life; he ran and activated his jetpack since he had free movement again. The escape had failed, after all. In the air he turned around only to see the chimera unfold two large wings and it took to the sky as well.

“Oh fuck, fuck, this is bad,” Lars said to himself, turned back around and started flying away on full throttle. He would only be able to plot the next escape route in 5 minutes, it had a cooldown timer so that a player couldn’t just try to escape over and over again. On the ground he could see other players watching him, astonished from the sight. 

The chimera slowly gained on him, came closer and closer, until Lars could smell it even against the wind. He could hear the writhing tentacles, feel the warm breath. Then the monster bit into his leg. He screamed from the sudden pain, his hit points dropping dangerously low. 

His vision began to fade when he heard Sarah’s faint voice from below. “Grim Reaper!” The air suddenly got cold, very cold, and the symbol of two crossed scythes appeared above the chimera’s head. The scythes moved downwards into the throat and then the beast dropped dead.

Still caught in the maw, Lars was dragged down towards the Thames, he couldn’t free himself from the bite no matte how hard he tried. The maw was locked tight. “No, not like this,” he whispered.

From below came a wave of pressure, then the head of the chimera fell away, separated from the body. Strafing by below him he could see Obsidian Blade; her arm went right through the body. With the weight away from his legs he could start up his jetpack again, dove down to catch Sarah and made his way to the embankment again.

Lars put Sarah safely on the ground and landed next to her. The onlookers applauded for the spectacular show they had just witnessed; some players were screaming congratulations. Lars scratched his head and looked over to Sarah. She had remained silent and seemingly indifferent to the situation. Ben came running up to her, wildly waving his hands.

“Boss, that was so cool! The way you jumped up and just killed that thing, how did you do that?” He asked with great enthusiasm.

“Yes,” a voice from the onlookers came, “how did you do this, Right Honourable Obsidian Blade.” The players parted and let a lanky figure through, medium height. His armour was blood-red, on his back a large sword. Around his head hovered a metallic red ring, like a halo. He nodded towards Sarah and moved his hand across where a heart would be.

“Right Honourable Sanguine Solar,” Sarah said, “I have simply used a special move that I have equipped. I don’t understand what is so amazing about this. Anybody can land a killing blow.”

“Yes, but I did not see a damage number appear. My ability lets me see the stats of players and monsters alike, including how much damage they are dealing, yet you have dealt no damage but still reduced that monster to 0 hit points.”

Sarah nodded but did not answer right away. Slowly she hovered towards Sanguine Solar and selected something in her menu. After that she hovered back and waited.

“I see. Very impressive. May we never meet the other’s guild on the battlefield.” With this comment Sanguine Solar retreated into the crowd and the others looked on with confusion.

“I’ll be off, then,” Sarah said, and her Obsidian Blade went offline. She left the rest of the guild behind, who were wondering what had just happened.
