---
layout: post
title: Chapter 2 - Revelation
---

Lars logged out of the game and slouched into his chair. He could still feel the residual pain from the neuron link through which he could communicate and interact with the game. Pain in the game does correlate to pain in the real world, to an extent.

He looked around in his room. The walls were plastered with game posters, from retro to the most recent instalments of his favourite game series. Fighting games, RPGs, some simulation games. But nothing compared to the game he had just played, Power World. It incorporated all of the newest developments in it, a fully virtual battle ground with a direct link to your senses, including pain receptors. It felt real, because, for all intents and purposes, it was real.

He sighed and put on a pair of headphones, turned on some music and drank a bit of his coffee. His mind wandered back to his adventure today and how he had pulled Obsidian Blade, his Guild Master, out of the rubble. He smiled. Obsidian had seen many battles, but only recently returned to the game and Obsidian Star was still small, just ten people strong, so profiling himself like that was a good investment into the future.

He wondered who Obsidian was in real life. In Power World everyone kept their identity secret. Some people took the game a bit too serious, and there had been attacks in real life before, so an honour code developed in the player base. The first and most important rule was to keep your and the identities of others secret. Revealing another player’s identity could result in exclusion from a guild, and, in extreme cases, even defeat and loss of all points.

Points were the all-purpose currency of the game. With them you bought items, weapons, level-ups, and even some rare abilities in the outside world. More importantly, dying in the game made you loose points and loosing all points meant that you could never join the game again.

“Lars, do you want some leftovers from yesterday or should we order something?” Lars’ sisters voice came from downstairs. He stood up and opened the door a bit, poking his head through the slit.

“Leftovers are fine with me.”

“Alright, you can warm some up if you want.”

“Okay, thanks.”

Lars closed the door again and threw himself into his bed. He was wondering about his guild. Who were these people? He had made some of his best friends with them, and he knew nothing about them. He knew, of course, how dangerous these thoughts were. But still, he thought about if they could be friends outside of the game as well.

Power World was a primarily local game, so his mates had to live somewhere around him, but given that he lived in London, that would be difficult. London was one of the most active Power World cities in the world, currently at rank 7 after Tokyo, the Bay Area, Osaka, New York, Seoul, and Shanghai. There were currently 1207 players with an active account on the London server.

The reason Power World was not that big of a game was because it was a well-kept secret. Copies could only be distributed directly; every person had to be invited by another player who had earned a license to copy the game. From what he has been told there were 100 copies created originally, given to players across the world. In those early days of the game, it was a very direct and close affair that could be traced, but nowadays it became almost untraceable.

Lars’ mentor, the only other person he knew the identity off in the game, had stopped playing one year ago. They still were in contact, but met rarely, mostly because of his mentor’s workload in college after moving from London to Bristol.

School the next day was tedious, Lars had stayed up late watching a streamer play Team Epic, a new superhero game that he was thinking about buying, but after looking at it now, he decided against it. It was just a bit too cliché for him.

Then, during history, Lars received an anonymous message on his brain link, the digital interface between the different global and local networks and his brain. Absent-mindedly he opened the message and read it.

‘Come to the student library during lunch break today. Third row from the left, just next to the popular literature shelf, Azure Sky. The Grand Stage’

This startled Lars awake. A cold shiver ran across his spine. Someone knew his identity. Then resolve took over. He was going to find out what was happening, who this mysterious message writer was. He would be ready for everything, even a confrontation. He was fit, he ran and played tennis for years.

The student library was always a quiet place, even more so during lunch break when even the most ardent studiers went into the cafeteria to eat something. Only a few students were here now, most of them from the higher grades, like him.

His school was on an all-purpose education campus. From primary to secondary school, college and university, everything was on campus. In addition to that there were different types of secondary schools, three to be exact, one with a focus on natural sciences, one focusing on humanities and one with a business and political focus. 

At the request of his father, Lars had joined the business and political school, although he, personally, would have tried the humanities. In an attempt to, at least somewhat, learn the things he was interested in, Lars had taken a lot of additional courses in those subjects.

When he arrived at the specified place, he noticed a folded piece of paper under a book. ‘This evening, 7pm, between the other place and the embankment. Follow the arrow.’

Lars sighed. The other place, that must be the Grand Stage, the campus’ theatrical stage. Tracing the line meant that the meeting place must be at Richmond Hall.

The sun was setting, dousing the sky in a warm orange glow. Lars, his bag over one shoulder and his jacket in his hand, arrived at Richmond Hall, a study centre, where students could work in silence. It was mostly used by university students, rarely by secondary schoolers. 

Lars went inside and looked around. He had only been in here once, two years ago, and he couldn’t remember any arrows. After a minute, however, he noticed a crudely drawn arrow on the wall. He followed it into the main study space, where another arrow pointed up and then towards a cubicle-structure.

There were no other arrows now, and only one person sat here, a girl in the uniform of the humanities secondary school. She had dark, almost black hair, seemed almost frighteningly slim as her hands flew across her holographic keyboard. She seemed to be roughly his age, but it was hard to tell from this angle.

“Uhm, excuse me?” Lars asked the girl. She showed no reaction. “Sorry, who are you?” Still nothing. He began to be a bit annoyed and walked to the girl and tipped on her shoulder. She twitched and turned around, surprised. “I think I’m supposed to meet someone here,” he said.

The girl put her index finger up and turned to her keyboard, typed something in and then turned towards Lars again. With her shining, violet eyes she now looked directly at him, it almost felt as if she was looking through and into him.

“Did you say something?” the girl asked.

“I think I’m supposed to be meeting someone here,” Lars said.

“Oh, are you, uhm, oh this is so awkward now,” the girl shuffled around in her seat and looked at something behind Lars. “Well, yeah, you are right, I think you’re supposed to meet me.” She chuckled and pointed at a nearby chair. Lars understood, took the chair, and sat down next to her.

“First of all, we should make sure that we are the correct persons,” the girl continued. “I’m going to ask you a question, and then you can ask me a question. I think you’ll get what it is about.” She took a deep breath. “What was the first thing your Guild Master said to you?”

Chills ran over Lars’ back. It was true. This person was, like him, playing Power World. He had met another player. “Uhm, that would be the welcoming message, wait, no…” A memory stirred in Lars’ mind. “Right, ‘Get down or you’ll be blown to pieces.’”

The girl let her breath out in relief. The tension in her body disappeared. “Now it’s your turn,” she said. “Ask me something only a member of Obsidian Star would know.”

Lars rummaged through his memories for any identifying memory, but then he came up with a simple question: “When are we meeting today?”

“9pm,” the girl answered. She clapped her hands together and smiled. “Well, Azure Sky, it is a pleasure meeting you in person. My name is Sarah Fielding, but you might know me better as Obsidian Blade.”
