---
layout: post
title: Chapter 15 - Novice
---

The café was located on the third floor of a building, with large windows that led in a lot of light. The tables were arranged in odd groups, dispersed throughout the room. There was a door to a well-frequented balcony. Lars looked around. The seats and locations were roughly colour-coded, an overall colourful display.

From one of the corner tables Sarah waved Lars to her. She had a radiant smile, and next to her sat another person, a young man with a black ponytail. He turned around as well and smiled. He was clean-shaven and had dark brown eyes and a slightly crooked nose. His mouth was, compared to his other features, small, but his grin made it look larger.

“I’m so sorry about today,” Lars apologised immediately. “He’s my classmate, nothing more. Don’t listen to him.”

Sarah chuckled. “You think I’m not used to that by now?”

“You looked pretty upset; I didn’t know what to do.” Lars sat down.

Sarah shrugged. “This, by the way, is Nicholas. Nicholas, this is Lars.”

“A pleasure to meet you,” Nicholas said. “You can call me Nick; Nicholas was my father.”

Lars nodded and shook Nick’s hand.

“So, what do you have in store for us, Sarah?” Lars asked. “I assume this is not just a follow up of our lunch.”

“In a way it is, in a way it isn’t.” She was interrupted by a server arriving and taking their orders. The café was known for its sandwiches, so they all ordered something to eat as well. “You see, the idea of getting someone with some technology experience for us really grew into a thing while I was storming out of the cafeteria.”

“I should have said something earlier than I did,” Lars interrupted. 

Sarah shook her head. “You were doing fine.” She cleared her throat and continued. “Nonetheless, I remembered that I had a few contacts into the university here, so I started texting some of them, and low and behold, I have found someone.” She pointed to Nick.

“I’ll be honest, I don’t really know what I’ve gotten myself into with this, but all of this secrecy is intriguing me quite a bit, not gonna lie,” Nick said and grinned.

“Well, you’ll see,” Sarah said, then she turned to Lars. “I want you to do it.”

“Me? But that’s my only…”

“You’ll be level 8 soon enough, you do it.”

Lars sighed. “Alright, I’ll do it.”

“Do you know the oath?”

“Hang on, I’ve saved it somewhere,” Lars said. “Somewhere secure,” he added. He took out the direct link cable, clicked through a few folders on his brain link until he found what he was searching for. The installation file for Power World, his copy license, and the oath he, himself, had to recite once in order to gain access to the game. “Okay, I’m ready.” He turned to Lars. “Plug this in, I’ll explain the rest once we’re connected.”

Nick looked at the other end of the cable, which was now dangling before his head. “A bit much for the first date, huh?” he jokingly asked before plugging it in. Lars saw the alert popping up in his field of vision but dismissed it right away. Judging from Nick’s hand movement he had done the same on his side.

_Okay, do you hear me?_ Lars asked using the cable as a means of communication.

_Loud and clear._

_Good, now listen closely. I am going to send you a program that will install a game like none you have ever seen before. Actually, what kind of games have you played?
This and that, a lot of strategy and simulation games, few fighting games. From what Sarah told me, however, this might change soon._

_We’ll see. Okay, the file is sending now. I’ve also sent you the invitation key, you’ll have to use that while you’re installing, but before you do that, you’ll have to say the oath. We all had to say the oath when we started out.

_Okay._

_I hereby solemnly swear-_

_I hereby solemnly swear-_

_That I will neither talk nor reveal-_

_That I will neither talk nor reveal-_

_The existence of Power World to anyone-_

_The existence of Power World to anyone-_

_Who has not said this same oath._

_Who has not said this same oath._

_Furthermore-_

_Furthermore-_

_I will not reveal the identities-_

_I will not reveal the identities-_

_Of anyone playing the game-_

_Of anyone playing the game-_

_To anyone else._

_To anyone else._

Lars nodded. _Very well. Now that you said that I can tell you a bit more about the game. Power World is a virtual reality fighting game. You connect to the local server in London via a secure network that is, from what I know, undetectable. If you log onto the server for the first time you will be asked to begin character creation. You’re going to answer a few questions and then the game will determine your name, your avatar, and, most importantly, your abilities. The goal of the game is to play it. You start with 100 points, if you go to 0 you lose the game permanently._

_Permadeath, got it._

_Yeah. You use the points to buy items, level up, all of that jazz. But and here is the thing, you can also spend points outside of the game._

Nick raised his eyebrows.

_I told you about the undetectable network. Through it you can connect to other networks around the city, even local networks, or the internet, without being traced. It’s like a more powerful VPN. This is pretty neat. It’s also the most used feature, probably. Can you guess why?_

_Untraceable connection to the internet from any local network? Don’t tell me people cheat on exams with that._

_They sure do._

Nick sighed and shook his head. _Oh man._

_Well, there’s more to it. You can also spend points to encrypt files on your brain link and make them completely invisible to scans or other attacks. I think you get the gist, there’s a whole bunch of cool privacy features built into the game, at the cost of points._

_Okay, I think I got it. What I don’t quite get is why you want me, specifically. Because if I read the oath correctly, then meeting another person is a bit risky, isn’t it?_

_Yeah, it is very unusual. Sarah can explain that better, she is the one with the plan. Once we’re in the game, that is._

_Alright. Anything else I need to know?_

_No, I think we are done here._

_Great._ Nick unplugged the cable. His eyes darted back and forth; he was clicking different things. “It’s installing now.”

“Very good,” Sarah said. “I’ll log on to see if the area is clear. We’re in Ardent Watcher territory, but when I went online this morning and during lunch there was a lot of commotion on the other side of the river. It could be Gold Saucer still haven’t learned their lesson. I swear, these guys are the worst. Anyway, see you guys in a bit!”

With that Sarah reclined into her bench, closed her eyes, and logged into the game. In this state she couldn’t see or hear, the only way to et her out of the game would be to shake her to get her attention. It wasn’t rare to find people relaxed like this, eyes closed in this café. People would come here to go into virtual reality calls with others, some would watch 3D-movies, it was all possible here.

“Alright,” Nick said. “I’m done installing. Yeah, the questions popped up now. So, I’m just answering them now? Anything I need to be aware of?”

Lars shook his head. “No, just answer them the way you would answer them. I’ve been told to let my intuition guide me, but I don’t see the difference, really. Just go for it.”

Nick nodded and his hands began sweeping through the air in front of him as he was selecting the different options. From time to time his eyes would narrow, then a smile crested his mouth. Surprise, confusion, many emotions came and went until he was done.

“Finishing up character, it says.”

“Yeah, give it a minute or so and we’ll check it out in the game. To log on you just need to select the application in your games folder. I put a link directly on my desktop, though.”

“I see. Well, let’s try it then.” Nick nodded. “This is going to be very exciting; I think.”

“Ah, one thing. If it asks you to which stage to connect to, select London. Otherwise, you might get sent to a random secondary stage.”

“Got it. It says it’s creating my profile on the server right now.”

“Then you’re almost done.” Lars took a sip from his drink. “I’ll join after you.”

“Well, three, two, one, here we go!” With that Nick put his head against the headrest and closed his eyes. A few seconds later, Lars also went into the game.

His avatar materialized in the London stage. The current mode was the Dark World stage. The sky was permanently black, only few light sources were distributed throughout the city, and the shadows were home to dangerous enemies called Shades. Killing a shade gave no points, but they took twice as many points from a player, should they kill one.

Next to him stood Obsidian Blade, elegant as always, hovering slightly above the ground with her sleek body of blades, crested by violet streaks. When he arrived, she turned her head around and looked at him. “Very well, you’re here as well. Take a look.” She pointed to the third avatar present.

Nick’s avatar was black like Sarah, but instead of matte it was shiny and polished, like glass. His body was close to the appearance of a normal human, distinct head, limbs, and torso, except that his limbs were disconnected from the torso and floated next to it. His face was black as well, with three white points for eyes, arranged in a triangle. The topmost one was bigger than the other two.

“So,” Nick said, “this is Power World, hm? Looks pretty dark to me.”

“That’s the current stage mode,” Lars explained. “It changes every once in a while. It could have been a jungle, a swamp, a city doused in moonlight, or a flaming hellscape. This mode is called Dark World. Rather fitting, in my opinion.”

Sarah hovered towards Nick. “Tell us, what does your character panel say about you?”

“Let’s see here, hm.” Nick moved his hands through the menu.” So, first of all, my name is Onyx Eye. I like that. What else do we have… It says I have an increased evasion stat and defensive capabilities. Is that good?”

“Defence is eh, but evasion is very rare. It means you have a chance to dodge attacks.” Lars said. “What’s your ability?”

“Ability? Ah, here. Network. What does that do?”

“Network!?” Sarah asked, with much vigour in her voice.

“Yes?”

“That is an incredibly rare ability. In my opinion one of the most powerful abilities in the game,” she continued. “It allows the user to create a network, through which people invited into the network can communicate. Think of it like a text message server, where you can set up groups, but also direct messages and so forth. The important thing is: This works outside of the game as well.”

“Well, that sounds cool and all, but I can’t help but notice that my character is not that suited for a fighting game, huh?” Nick moved his limbs around. “This feels very satisfying, though. I could get used to this.”

“No, you’re not very combat focused, but that makes you much more valuable,” Sarah said. “We have excellent combatants already, but almost no support or backup players who can organize things. Having a networker is a very, very powerful advantage. I think in London there is only one other networker, they are a member of Vitruvian Ascension, I think. Very coveted. I heard their master pays them points regularly so that they stay in the guild.”

“What’s this Vitruvian thing you are talking about? What are guilds?”

“Lars, he’s your novice, explain the basics to him, I’ll have another look around.” With that Sarah vanished.

“Alright, boss.” Lars sighed. “So, let’s start easy. You start with 100 points. You use these points to do basically everything in the game, and outside. You buy items, you level up, they are experience and currency combined. There are two ways of gaining points. If you win against an enemy, a non-player-enemy, to be exact, you get some points, usually between 5 and 25, depending on how hard the enemy is.

“The other way to gain points is by battling other players. If you manage to kill another player in a duel, you gain points based on the level difference between you and them, and they lose the same number of points. If you’re both the same level, you take 10 points, if they are a level higher it’s 20, then 40, 80, and so forth.”

“It always doubles?”

“No, you can’t gain more than 300 points from a single battle. But defeating an enemy with such a level advantage is almost impossible. If you lose, by the way, it goes in the other direction, but not a stark, it goes down by two every time. You can’t lose all your points if you are fighting an enemy with 3 or more levels compared to you, you’ll be spared with one point. I still wouldn’t recommend it.”

“Alright, I understand, I think.” Nick nodded. “How do I fight?”

“As a level 1 character you should have access to two basic moves and a finisher, I think. Go into your battle menu and look for them.”

“Yeah, it says I have a dash-strike, a short-ranged teleport, and my finisher is called ‘Thread of Disloyalty’.”

“Look at the descriptions.”

“So, I lunge forward and damage people, I guess I can also just hit them with my fists, I can teleport up to two meters in any direction and deal damage where I land. The finisher says that I take control over another avatar for 3 seconds. That doesn’t seem a lot, but that could be devastating, probably.”

“Oh yeah. If you get an area-of-effect move out of an enemy, or waste their ability points, that is huge.”

“These ability points, it says I have 10, what are they?”

“You use them to pay for your special moves. As you level up you get more moves and more ability points.”

“Are they tied to the other kind of points in any way?”

“Nope, totally separate.” Lars nodded. “Alright, go into your menu and look at the matchmaking screen. Whose names can you see there?”

“There’s Azure Sky, distance two meters, so I expect that that will be you, there is a player called Obsidian Blade moving away from us, that’s probably Sarah. I can also see other names, Rose Mallet and Amber Horn. I assume they are other players, right?”

“Yup. I’ve seen Amber Horn once during turf wars, they are a member of Ardent Watcher.” Lars paused. “Ah, right, the guilds. So, you obviously don’t play alone here. You can join teams, and guilds. Teams are your squad, buddies you go on quests with, but guilds are larger networks of players and teams with more organization. Each guild has a master. I’m a member of Obsidian Star, Obsidian Blade is our master. The biggest guild in London is Ardent Watcher, they have around 130 members, which more than a tenth of all players in London, there’s just over 1200 of us here. You can’t connect to any other cities, though, each instance is local.”

“Okay. These Ardent Watcher guys, are they cool? I mean, are they chill? If I remember correctly, then we are in their territory?”

“Yeah, they are pretty chill. If you want to just play and enjoy the game, they are the guild you should join. Not that you, specifically, should join, I think it’s more or less clear that you’ll join us.”

“Alright. Vitruvian Ascension, are they also a guild?”

“Yup, Gold Saucer as well. Those are pretty nasty ones, though, we don’t get along well with the Golds especially.”

“Okay.”

“No, select me on the matchmaking list and challenge me to a fight so that you can try your moves out. Don’t worry, I won’t backstab you, you’re my novice after all.”

“Got it.” Nick selected Azure Sky and initiated combat.

“Once challenged a player can’t refuse the challenge. Duels last at most 10 minutes, after that it’s considered either a draw if both players still have more than 50 percent of their hit points, or a victory for the player that has more if at least on is under 50 percent. Now, let’s see what you’ve got.”

Onyx Eye nodded and his body moved forward with great speed. The surface transformed into a spiky ball that scratched Lars, dealing damage to him.

“Damn, that’s a cool move,” Lars said. “Try the other one.”

Nick nodded and vanished, suddenly appearing in front of Lars again.

“Okay, now hit me a bunch of times with your fists until your move gauge fills up. If you use a finisher while having your gauge at max points it only costs half as much to activate, so people usually space them out to conserve points.”

“When do you get your points back?”

“Six per minute, or if you log out ang log back in at least 15 minutes later.”

“Alright, here it comes!” Nick said.

Lars felt very weird, suddenly. His body started moving on its own, his jetpack activated, and he was launched directly into the ceiling.

“Ow, that hurt!” Lars said after the controlling effect was done.

“Sorry,” Nick apologized.

“No worries, I was just really surprised. Things suddenly started happening and I had no control anymore. If you’re feeling brave, try that on Obsidian Blade once she returns.”

“I don’t know, how easily is she angered?”

“It should be fine. It’s just a demonstration, after all.”

A short time later, Sarah returned. Nick had charged his gauge again, and as soon as Sarah was within reach, he said: “No look at this sweet ability!” and activated Threads of Disloyalty.

Obsidian Blade moved erratically, unsheathing her blades, and sinking it into one of the walls. It went in like a knife into warm butter. And then it was over already.

“What was that?” Sarah asked. Her voice was shaking slightly.

“My finisher, Threads of Disloyalty. I can control another avatar for 3 seconds. Pretty cool, huh?”

“Never, ever use that on me again. Never, do you understand?”

“Oh, okay, sorry, I just wanted to show off…”

“It’s fine, but you could have done some very, very bad things with control over my avatar. You could have become uninstalled.”

Lars tilted his head to the side. “But you’re level 12. How…”

“Later. That is a discussion not fit for now. Anyhow, you two should start playing together soon to level Nick up. For now, this should be enough…”

“Wait,” Nick said. “What is your plan? You said you would explain it to me.”

“Right. My plan is as simple as it is ridiculous. I want to find the server and safe the world.”

“Huh.”

“In detail, I want to make sure that the server doesn’t get corrupted. I started out in Hongkong, and that server died out due to an enemy invasion following an update to the server software. I want to make sure this doesn’t happen here as well. You’ll get more detail once I have worked them out myself.” She turned away, and then back towards them again. “Oh, and set up the network and invite us.”

“I’ll try.” He moved his hands around. “There, I think this should do the trick.”

A message appeared in Lars’ field of vision, an invitation to a network.

“One thing,” Sarah said, “before we get too cocky with the network: Nick, you will have access to all logs, even the direct messages. Everything we say you will be able to read, so we should be careful what we write. It’s bad manners to spy on the conversations of others, but sometimes it might be necessary. With that, I’ll log out.” Obsidian Blade dematerialized.

“See you on the other side,” Lars said. “The logout button is on the bottom of the menu.” Azure Sky vanished and Lars woke up at the table again. Sarah sat upright already and took a sip of her drink. Then Nick woke up as well.

“Good job, both of you,” Sarah said. She raised her smoothie glass. “To our continued cooperation.”
