---
layout: post
title: Chapter 9 - Grind
---

Ben lay on the floor with his feet leaned against the wall. He was munching on some snacks while reading up on the newest chapter of a webcomic he was reading. Next to him, on a chair, sat Lars, slowly spinning around. His head was supported by his hands, and he looked very concentrated, as if he was sitting in an exam.

“Well, what was that all about?” Lars asked. He continued spinning around.

“Hm?” Ben asked in return.

“Why, or no, what did she say to Solar that would warrant secrecy? And then this mysterious comment? It all seems so weird now.”

“Ah, she didn’t want the other guilds to know, and maybe she wanted to keep a flair of secrecy, mystery, you know, get a reputation and stuff like that.” Ben turned around and sat upright. He had moved his hand through his hair so often now that his hairstyle was completely ruined, his brown hair was all over the place.

“You know, I kind of want to go and ask her, I really want to know what she did to safe me,” Lars said. “Are you up for an adventure?”

“Nah, man, I already drank a beer, let’s go at it tomorrow before I have to go to Kent again. And honestly, I’d be up for another round of Power World, if you are. I really want to play as much as possible right now. I have no idea when I’ll get to play again.”

“Alright, let’s jump in. I’ll register us as a tag team and then we’ll do some quests,” Lars said and started up the game again.

“Hell yeah, dude!”

The two players arrived in the Plains Stage, a wide-open field with a few forests here and there, as well as some rivers. At its centre stood a tiny village with a few houses, a merchant, a tavern with the quest board and a few other buildings relating to infrastructure. The stage had more of a fantasy style to it than some of the more futuristic stages that were more common to find in the game.

The pair went to the quest board, where two other players also stood and debated what quest to take on. Outside of the London Stage players’ names could be easily looked up, the two in front of the board were Cyan Wing and Indigo Spear. On their backs they had the guild sign of Ardent Watcher, a large, red shield with a knight on it.

“Heh, seems we’re not the only ones her, huh?” Ben asked and walked up next to the other players. “Good evening, lads, what do we have on offer today?”

Indigo Spear giggled. “Oh, nothing much, there are some monster bounties here, but a dungeon has opened up west from here, if you fancy something like that.”

Ben nodded and looked to Lars, who had listened in on the short conversation. He gave Ben a thumbs up and they made their way out of the tavern again.

“Man, I’m pumped. I haven’t oiled my joints in months,” Ben said. They were now walking towards a hill covered in golden-brown grass. The sun was just setting on the stage and the red and yellow rays gave the scenery a golden touch.

“Yeah, I’ve missed you, buddy. It can get boring without your comments sometimes. You should come by London more often, especially now that we have this thing going on.”

“Man, I wish I could, really, but I’m just so busy, I have a job, a family, I play in a band, there’s not much I can do.” Ben shrugged and continued walking.

Lars paused for a moment, but quickly caught up with his partner again. “Why did you move to Kent, anyway?” he asked.

“Ah, it’s the job, I got a really, and I mean really good offer over there. I work as a French and Japanese teacher in Folkestone. It’s good pay, I’m technically employed by the college there.” Ben laughed.

“When did you learn that?” Lars asked. He was kicking some stones ahead of him along the road.

“Being a teacher or the languages?”

“Both, I guess,” Lars replied.

“Well, let’s see now. My mum is French, so I got that from my house, I learned Irish in high school, then took courses in Japanese and Korean. I got a diploma and a teacher’s certificate here in London and then got the job in Folkestone. It’s pretty straight forward.”

“Damn, it seems like you’ve got life pretty much all figured out. I have no idea what I’m going to do once I leave school…”

“Dude, no one has that. End of your teens, early twenties, you feel like shit, like the last idiot on earth. Society has set the stupidest goals, advertising people who went to university with 16, that’s stupid. Take your time, man, it’s the only thing we’ve got on this earth. Don’t beat yourself up on it, we all went through it when we were your age.” Ben slapped Lars on the shoulder, metal creaking on metal. “Keep your chin high and your spirits even higher, my dad said that to me when I failed my first attempt for the certificate, I just went back and tried again, you know? Don’t buy into the success stories of others, man, just don’t.”

Lars was silent for some time and then nodded. “Perhaps you’re right, but it didn’t really make it better right now.”

The entrance to the dungeon was a small hole on the side of a hill, supported by a few old wooden beams. Lars checked the map to see if they were even in the right place. “Yup, apparently this is it.”

“Hey hey, let’s check it out!” Ben already began climbing into the hole.

“Wait a second, this is a mystery dungeon, that means it constantly changes its layout, we should be careful,” Lars warned, but Ben had already entered the dungeon.

On the inside was a burial chamber dug into the hill. On a stone plinth in the centre of the room lay a mummified corpse. An ethereal voice echoed through the room. “Leave, mortals, you are not welcome here!”

“Oh, we’ll see about that!” Ben answered and walked to the plinth. From the corpse suddenly rose a spirit, a silvery-cold presence that began attacking Ben. It extended its ragged hand, loose strands of fabric animated by a cold wind that enveloped Ben.

Lars ran towards Ben and activated a fire spell to ward off the cold. The fiery explosion hit the ghost, who almost instantly dematerialized. In the setting Dust one of the walls slid open, stone creaking on compacted dirt. The way forward had opened, the real challenge had begun.

The lower levels of the dungeon were filled with traps and enemies abound, Lars and Ben had to dodge saws, jump over acid pits, battle spiders, constructs, snakes, skeletons, and all manner of evil creatures to get further. After 30 minutes they barged through a door, pursued by a giant scorpion. The new room had a few benches, a fireplace in the centre and a calm atmosphere.

“Finally, a save point,” Lars said. “I thought that scorpion would get us.”

“For sure, dude, that was closer than a door with three locks,” Ben panted.

“What?”

“Oh, nothing, just a stupid joke, you know, because close…”

“Oh my god, that’s so bad.”

Ben shrugged. “It could have been funny.” He opened his menu. After some scrolling, he put his fist up in the air. “Boo yah, baby!”

“Hm?”

“I’m almost level 4, just 12 points and I can level up. We should get some more though; I don’t want to lose it all immediately. What do you say, one more floor? That should get us around 40 points.”

“Sounds good, just let me heal up a bit and so that I can regenerate my ability points. I’ve almost used them up using my jetpack to get up that cliff with the spiders.”

“Same, dude. That chainsaw is mowing through points like crazy if I’m really revving it.”

“Imagine you had to pay with points, though,” Lars joked. Ability points were a separate, slowly replenishing resource that was used by some special moves. The more powerful, the more points they cost.

The next floor was a crypt full of spiderwebs and the corresponding beasts. Tangled within the silvery-white silk were corpses and skeletons. Faint sounds of clacking could be heard in the distance.

“I regret everything I just said,” Ben told Lars. “Of course the next floor is spiders.”

“Relax, let me lead and I’ll give you the kills. Then we’ll get out of here in no time at all.” Lars went a bit forward and began cutting down the webs stopping them from going further. The strands jittered and transferred the waves made by cutting them deeper into the dungeon.

This meant that soon the spiders would arrive, and combat would begin. Lars took out a defensive grease and applied it. His avatar was resistant against poison, but not corrosion, so if the spiders spat acid, he would have a hard time.

“Here we go!” Lars said as the first spider arrived. It was almost as big as Lars’ avatar. Its mandibles were twitching, and Ben walked backwards to the wall.

Lars, on the other hand, ran towards it, crouching, and diving below it. His fingertips were sharp like daggers, and he plunged this spear into the underside. Blood and goo came out of the wound, splattering all over the floor and Lars.

“Yeah, that’s it!” Lars yelled and stood up again after sliding all the way to the other side. He could now attack the abdomen with a few well-placed strikes that incapacitated the spider. “It’s your turn, Smoke!”

Ben nodded and approached the spider with his chainsaw. He sank it deep into the skull and killed it. “Hm, 6 points. I guess we have to continue.”

Slowly they made their way through the floor, killing spiders, disarming traps, even solving a riddle door, and fighting a mimic until they arrived at the end of the floor. The end boss was a giant spider hanging from the ceiling. It spat acid and poison like a minigun, occasionally diving down to attack with its mandibles. Hitting it with two close-combat avatars was hard.

“We have to try something else,” Ben yelled.

“I know, but what?” Lars yelled back. The spider had just come down for a moment and managed to land a painful hit on him. “AAARGH,” he screamed.

“I know, throw me up into the net,” Ben said and ran over to his mate.

“Are you crazy?”

“Yeah!”

“Well then, are you ready?” Lars grabbed Smoke Granite’s feet.

“Yeet me!”

With that Lars pulled up, giving Ben the boost needed to reach one of the legs. With his chainsaw he began cutting it off, throwing the spider of balance. After a second leg fell, the spider could not manage to keep her weight on the ceiling and crashed into the ground. Now Lars and Ben had free range to attack it, which resulted in their victory.

Ben was the last one to hit, the spider dematerialized, and a ‘Floor Clear’ screen showed up on their HUDs. 

“Did you get it?” Lars asked.

“Yup, enough points to level up and be safe, let me quickly choose my bonus. Hm, I think I should finally get an upgrade for my saw; I’m really noticing how it’s lagging behind.” He selected something. “Yeah, I’ll go with that.”

“Cool, you should also get your first copy license now,” Lars said while managing his own inventory.

“Uhm, nope. Negatory, chief, no license in my rewards.”

“What do you mean, no license? Everyone gets one on level 4.”

“Well, check my inventory then.” Ben gave Lars access to his avatar’s menu. He was right: There was no license to be found.

“That’s weird, we should ask Obsidian Blade tomorrow about that, maybe she knows more about it,” Lars said.

“Yeah, we’ll do that,” Ben answered. “Time to log out, I’m getting tired.”

“Yeah, see you back in my room.”

With that both exited the game and their consciousness returned to their bodies.

“Man, what a trip,” Ben said and made his way to the inflatable mattress.

“Yeah, it was really cool fighting with you again.”

“Dude, I missed it so much! I need to come to London more often but, argh, the time, I’ll have to see. Anyway, time to sleep.” Ben lay down and put a blanket over him.

“Yup, good night,” Lars said and turned off the light.

“Good night,” Ben answered and went to sleep.
