---
layout: post
title: Chapter 11 - Friend
---

“Are you my friend, Lars?” Sarah asked.

“What? Yeah, of course. We’re in a guild together, we fight and laugh together.” Lars approached Sarah. Her eyes were focused on her hands.

“A friend…” she said with a faint voice.

Lars sat down next to her and touched her hand, which made her wince, but she did not pull away.

“Listen, Sarah, it’s just like Ben said. We’re here, we’re real.”

“That sounds as if my friends in Hongkong weren’t real.”

“That’s not what I meant, and you know that. What I wanted to say was…”

“I know what you wanted to say, and I appreciate it, but I’m not in a mood to really grasp what is happening with my life right now. It’s just so much, suddenly. I have never met so many new people in such a short time, it’s actually really exhausting.”

“Well, I’ll be off then, so that you can get some rest.”

“No, wait,” Sarah said, “stay a bit, please.

Lars raised his eyebrows. “Uh, sure,” he answered and sat back down.

“It’s weird, really, on one hand I feel so tired while interacting with people, but then I also don’t really want it to stop. With games at least it feels good while you’re playing and you only feel bad after you’re done, but this makes no sense at all.” Sarah turned around on her side and looked at Lars. “How many friends do you have?”

“A lot,” he answered, “but I don’t know if I would call all of them friends. I go to parties, I have my guys from tennis practice, I’m still in contact with some guys from the band I once played in, there’s a lot by now.”

“Wow, I could never endure something like that. I went to a party once, it was the most garish and terrifying thing ever, it felt bad from the beginning to the end and after it I had a headache like someone tried to ram a jackhammer into my skull.”

“That does sound bad. How big was that party, maybe you should start smaller?”

“I don’t know anymore, but it was loud, bright, it smelled like unwashed people and alcohol, I was feeling sick. I didn’t have the capacity to count how many were there.”

“That’s fair, I guess.” Lars looked at her. Lying on the sofa, with her hair spread around she looked so fragile. Her slender fingers lay right next to him, and he couldn’t stop himself from reaching for them. He put his hand over hers, aligning his fingers so that they fit the spaces between hers. For a moment they dwelt like that, then Sarah spoke.

“Thank you,” she whispered, her voice very faint and quiet.

“For what?” Lars asked.

“I don’t know. I just felt like saying thank you. For being here, I guess, really being here. I never really talked with anybody about anything.”

“What about your dads?”

“Oh, sure, I tell them how my day is, we watch shows together, we eat, cook and all, Dad is a real nerd regarding old video games, but he doesn’t like my VR games. Pa is really sweet, but he can’t really relate to me that well, I guess. It’s just actually saying the words that makes it feel so much more real than just thinking about saying something and hearing a computer say it. It has a certain gravity to it.”

“I think I know what you mean,” Lars said. “My parents often aren’t home because they both work on jobs around the country, so when they are home, we have to speed through catching up before they have to go again. I can talk with my sister, sure, but it’s just not the same.” He sighed.

Sarah closed her fingers around his hand. For a moment he had to breathe in sharply. Despite Sarah’s meagre appearance, her hands were surprisingly strong. She soon relaxed her grip.

From above the voice of her Dad came down. “Sarah, are you okay? Your heart monitor is getting pretty high.”

Sarah got red again. “Yes, I’m fine,” she answered and sat up, letting go of Lars’ hand. She seemed very flustered. “It’s nothing!”

“Okay, good,” the voice answered. “Did you take your medicine today?”

“Yes, I did.”

“Alright, I’ll let you go on now.”

Sarah buried her face in her hands. “Oh, how impossibly embarrassing.”

“Are they monitoring your heartbeat?”

“Yes, because of my medical problems. I’d rather not go into detail right now.”

“I understand.”

They sat together in silence. From above creaking wood could be heard, her fathers seemed to be talking to each other as well. Lars looked further around in the room. It served as a combination of living room, dinner room, and kitchen. The latter was located in a nook with a window to the front, next to the small entry room with coat hangers and boot racks.

It was a strange combination of chaos and order. On one hand, the floor, kitchen, and chairs were clean and orderly, but the tables in the room, including the dinner table, were stacked high with different things, newspapers, magazines, books, all manner of paperwork.

“So…” Lars began. He looked at Sarah.

“Yeah, if you want to go you can go now. I don’t know, I just had this weird feeling.” She looked to Lars, then down on the floor. “It’s nothing, just ignore it.”

“Well then, if anything comes up again, you can just text me and we’ll figure it out, okay?”

“Yeah,” Sarah answered and lay back down again. Outside, in the garden, the late spring breeze moved the branches around.

On his way back to his home, Lars stopped by a small café and picked up two coffees, one for him and one for his sister, as a small thank you gesture for letting Ben stay for the night. His thoughts, however, always trailed back to the short moment with Sanguine Solar.

They were the most powerful player in London, master of the biggest guild, had the most points, most victories, if there was anyone with a claim to rule London, to know everything about it, then it was them. They were always calm, never enraged, cordial, the perfect player, in some way.

Lars unlocked the front door with his digital key and entered the house.

“Nora?” he asked. He took off his shoes and walked into the dining room. It had been meticulously cleaned by Ben the night before.

“Yeah?” Her voice came from her room upstairs.

“I’ve got you some coffee, I’ll put it on the table.” 

“Hey, thanks!” Nora answered and the door to her room opened. She jumped down the stairs and snatched the cup from Lars.

“As a thank you for yesterday.”

“No need, that pizza was enough twice over,” Nora laughed.

“Well, then now it’s thrice over.”

Nora went back up and Lars let himself fall into an armchair. His mind was still restless, and he decided to log onto the Power World server for a moment.
