---
layout: post
title: Chapter 1 - Collapse
---

Air was rushing through Lars’ hair, his body hurling itself towards the ground below and in front of him. The dark buildings below, black like onyx, came closer and closer with a break-neck speed, soon he could make out more details, like roads, lantern posts, and eventually the smooth, almost mirror-like pavement.
Just before reaching the ground Lars turned his body around, feet downwards towards his destination, head toward the sky. He readied himself for the impact, and the familiar crunch of metal against the stone reverberated within his body. He crouched down, his hand on the road next to him, his legs in the cracked crater that his landing had created in the pavement.

A second crunch came from next to Lars. A red armoured person had landed to his right. The metal edifice stood with a straight back; its head slightly turned towards Lars. It nodded and started sprinting forwards.

“What are you waiting for?” the metal body called back to Lars, the voice slightly distorted with a metallic echo. “We’re already late to the party!”

“Yeah, yeah, I’m coming” Lars stood up and ran up to his friend. His sleek legs moved up to him with ease, Lars was undeniably the faster of the two. The metallic red shell was strong, but limited movement, while the light blue one Lars was wearing was focused on speed and agility.

Together they turned around a corner and found themselves standing in a battlefield. From the top of the buildings other armoured people attacked a convoy on the ground, guards retaliating with their own attacks. A giant, metal spike was suddenly driven through the walls of the building, cracking the wall, and sending rubble flying down.

A small green figure jumped down from the convoy and stumbled towards the approaching avalanche, put its hands together and the sound of a church bell emanated from it. A blueish-green force field appeared, against which the rubble fell without harming the convoy.

“Good work, Viridian,” a black and violet figure called out. Its armour had many sharp and angular features, an imposing sight to behold. All over the body were razor-sharp blades that turned anyone who would try to go into close combat into shreds. With a look towards Lars the figure said: “You’re late, we had to start without you.”

“I told you you’d be late,” the red armour said.

“Need I remind you that you are late as well, Cinnabar?” the black figure said. “Whatever the case, get on here and defend the southern flank, Vitruvian Ascension could attack us there at any point.”

“Yes, master,” Cinnabar answered and entered its combat mode. One of its hands retracted into the armour and plasma gun came out. “Large and charged, as always!” With these words it ran south towards the other side of the road.

“You, Azure, come with me, maybe we can trap some of our enemies in the building.” The black figure hovered over to Lars and retracted its blades, turning the body into a smooth, but still angular, shell. “Fly us up there.”

“Always,” Lars said and activated his jet booster. Like a rocket the mismatched pair flew into the sky, then taking a sharp turn into the building. Lars flew through the wall, headfirst, his companion in tow. When the dust settled the first combatants noticed what had happened.

“Guys, Azure Sky and Obsidian Blade are here!” a yellowish figure yelled. It pointed its comically large sword towards them and made a few threatening passes with the blade. Obsidian unsheathed its razors again and dashed towards the swordfighter.

“Sulphur!” another voice called out. “Here!” A ball of bright light erupted in the centre of the room and spread its white inferno through the building.

Lars screamed, the light was blinding him, and his visual sensors felt as if they were burning. From behind him he could hear Obsidian fighting as if nothing had happened. When he turned around, he was faced with two enemies, a hulking green monstrosity, and a nimble, silvery-metallic figure.

“So, you are Azure Sky, eh?” the silvery figure asked. It tilted its head to the side and despite no emotion crossing the metal-set face, Lars could hear the smug, mocking expression solely through the tone of the voice.

“Yeah, that’s me,” Lars answered and began running directly at them, preparing a frontal attack.

“You are far to eager,” the green one said with a voice like cracking metal. “You’ll be torn to shreds.” It extended its arms forward and suddenly a gust of wind blasted against him. The cutting air began drawing streaks into Lars’ armour as more and more splinters were dragged across it. Still, Lars moved forward. He had no ranged weapons equipped today, so it was his only choice.

“Ha, look at him struggling, Lime! He’s still just a newbie.” The silvery figure began laughing as static electricity began charging up on her body. “Well how a bout THIS!” A powerful bolt of lightning suddenly struck Lars, and his body was thrown against a pillar in the wall. Cracks began to form in the building, and it became apparent that the building would soon collapse under the stress.

Outside, the battle continued raging. Just as Obsidian had predicted, Vitruvian Ascension had arrived and now battled the two guilds already present, Lars’ Obsidian Star and their enemy, Gold Saucer. This put additional stress on the structure and Lars decided it was not safe anymore. In fact, a few well placed blows would probably bury all fighters under the building.

“Obsidian!” Lars shouted.

“What?” The answer came from somewhere in the dust.

“We’re leaving, I have an idea!”

“Wha…” Obsidian did not have enough time to continue speaking as Lars had already grabbed onto the blades, pulling Obsidian out.

At that point the building began collapsing completely, and Lars had to dodge the rubble falling down, weaving through the destruction. A few stray stones hit him, but suddenly an avalanche of concrete stopped him in his path.

“What are you doing?” Obsidian asked.

“If we are fast, we can make the building collapse over Gold and Vitruvian.”

“Hm, good point. But don’t bury us as well, you can’t take another loss of points right now. We need you to level up this week.”

“Got it.” With that Lars sunk his fist into one of the load-bearing walls and began the complete destruction of the building. An earthquake-like shutter went through the building as the south wing started collapsing. This sent a wave of destruction forward, dragging the rest of the building into the ground with it.

Lars put his jetpack on full thrust and shot towards the sky, but a collapsing wall hit him just a few seconds before they would have made it out. In a spiralling fall he descended, but Obsidian, who couldn’t fly on its own, managed to break the fall through well placed hovers.

Lars then noticed a second way out of the building, mustered all of his power and shot through the building, in a diagonal path through the floors until they finally emerged from the broken building. He looked down and could see that the entire structure had collapsed and most combat action on the street had ceased by now, with the Vitruvians and Golds mostly buried under the rubble.

“Well, that was closer than necessary, Azure,” Obsidian said. The metallic voice echoed both criticism and relief. It turned its head downwards and looked at the other members of the guild, who cheered the two on, happy to see them in safety. “Get us down, now”

Slowly throttling the boosters, Lars landed on the ground. Viridian and Cinnabar came running up to them as soon as they landed. Viridian threw itself into Lars’ arms and Cinnabar bowed in front of Obsidian.

“We were so worried,” Viridian said. “When the building collapsed, we thought you might have lost points and we couldn’t do the quest next week.”

Lars chuckled and his metallic hand moved over his smooth head. “Well, it was a close one…”

“But you made it,” Obsidian said. “Well done.”

“Oh, thank you, master,” Lars said, wondering over the sudden shift in personality. Obsidian remained without expression, the violet streak behind the angular visor unchanging. With that Obsidian already had more facial features than Lars or Cinnabar. Lars’ body had just an overly large, dark, and rounded plate like a space suit, and Cinnabar a closed medieval helmet, both with no identifiable features.

Viridian had more features across its small body, two yellow beads as eyes, but the most features in the guild had Alabaster Spike, who possessed the facsimile of mouth, eyes, and nose. But the rest of its body was so completely inhuman, a strange amalgamation of marble-like rock and metal parts, that there was no jealousy towards it.

“Enough of this,” Obsidian said and pointed along the street. “We still need to deliver this to get the experience. If we stop now, it will all be for nothing. And I think my family will eat soon, and I don’t want to miss that.”

Lars nodded and swung himself on the convoy and the group continued its journey across the battlefield. Luckily, there were no further complications, and they arrived at the drop-off point without problems. They all cashed in the experience, Cinnabar had enough to level up and bought a new weapon from a vendor with the loot he had taken during the battle.

“We’ll see each other tomorrow, then?” Viridian asked as it was clicking through the menu. The holographic interface was only visible to Viridian, but the others recognized the typical movement.

“Yes, tomorrow, at 9pm,” Cinnabar replied. Obsidian nodded.

“See ya!” With those words Viridian disappeared.
