---
layout: post
title: Chapter 12 - Challenger
---

Lars’ avatar materialized in the London Stage. He opened his menu and scrolled to the looking-for-group and matchmaking list. There were a few recognizable players online. Among them were Cinnabar and Viridian, who were on a dungeon crawl in the Space Castle stage.

There were also a few higher-level players online, among them, of course, Sanguine Solar. The guild master of Ardent Watcher was almost always online, no matter the time or day. They were currently in their headquarters in Islington. Violet Thunder was also online, fighting in a dungeon deep in the chasm. The last guild master present was Gold Saucer’s Red Nose, one of the most annoying players, but also level 12, just like Sarah.

For some time, Lars just walked through the streets, going nowhere in particular. The stage was in its City of Stone mode, every building was made of smooth, black stone. He ran his hand along the walls, his sharp fingertips scratching along the rock.

Suddenly, his HUD lit up and a burning text appeared: ‘HERE COMES A NEW CHALLENGER!’ This meant that another player had just challenged him to PvP duel. Lars was shocked and looked around where his challenger might be.

“Don’t look so surprised, boy! It’s your own fault that you’re just wandering the streets without a partner. Consider this a lesson!” The voice came from behind and above him; he recognized it immediately. Red Nose.

The guild master jumped down, their avatar a grotesque distortion of a clown with a gigantic, glowing, round nose. Their hands were enlarged and had too many joints. With every step their shoes made a squeaking noise, and bells were jingling away from the ends of their three-tipped jester’s cap.

“Red Nose,” Lars said. He went into a defensive position, ready to dodge whenever needed. “Don’t you think it’s a bit unfair attacking someone sow low compared to you?”

“Oh, ha ha ha, no, no, no. I think this is very fair, after all, you buried so many of my mates, it’s just fair and square that they get some revenge, huh?” Their voice was full of smug condescension, its ringing pitch drove Lars mad.

“We’ll see about that,” Lars said and ran towards Red Nose. He charged up one of his most powerful moves, Sky Spear Impaler, a direct, physical attack. The opposing guild master, however, did nothing, so Lars had no problem aiming right for the torso, but suddenly, in the last moment, his hand swerved to the side as if through magic. “What?”

“Ooh, someone should do their homework, don’t you know what my ability is?” Red Nose laughed.

“What is it?” Lars asked, grinding his teeth.

“Probability Ward, kiddo, any attack that can miss will miss me. Only auto-hit moves can damage me.” They laughed again and honked their nose. “Looks like you’re the clown now, huh?”

Lars got more and more annoyed. He had an auto-hit move, Ace Strike, but it left him vulnerable for other incoming attacks. He looked around, but could not see anyone else, so he charged up the move. Red Nose still remained in place.

Lars jumped forward, his right fist glowing with energy, and he planted the hit into Red Nose’s torso. His enemy coughed but seemed largely unbothered by the attack.

“See, that’s how it works. But is that all you got? I wonder why Obsidian Blade even took you in, then. You seem to be more the cowardly type, not like your other people. Tch, the audacity of those youngsters.” The laughed again. “Silly Prison!”

Suddenly Lars was caught in a carousel of illusions dancing and prancing about. No matter where he looked, just more confusing images kept him in place.

“Get him, boys!”

From the roofs and behind the corners came around twelve other players, weapons drawn, ready to bash Lars and get their revenge. They fired shots, attacked at close range, but Lars was unable to react, caught in Red Nose’s disabling move. He saw how his hit points went down, lower and lower, until they were almost depleted, but still he was unable to escape the prison.

“That is not honourable of you, Red Nose.” Obsidian Blade had appeared behind the guild master.

“Eek! If it isn’t our upsta…” They did not get to talk further as Sarah dashed around them and took their underlings on. Her blade arm extended like a spear she ran through three players at the same time, instantly reducing their hit points to zero. Light erupted from them, and they were forcefully disconnected for the next 60 minutes.

“What do you think you’re doing here, Blade?” Red Nose yelled.

“I’m defending my guild,” Sarah answered as she effortlessly mowed down more players. “And what about you?”

“I was just walking around the city when suddenly this fight broke out and, uh, you know, carpe diem, seize the opportunity, that’s what they say, isn’t it?” Red Nose grabbed their nose and honked. In a puff of smoke, they disappeared and reappeared on a roof far above.

There were only two players left, who now ran away in fear. Sarah stood next to Lars now and looked up to Red Nose. “If you want revenge, come and take your revenge, but not on my guild, on me. We’re both level 12, challenge me and we’ll settle this.”

“Pah, in your dreams!” Red Nose yelled and jumped away into the distance. The move ended and Lars could move again.

“Thank you, master, I didn’t know what was happening…”

“You shouldn’t walk around alone after the move you pulled with the building. You were lucky I was around to help out, you’d have lost a lot of points otherwise, against so many other players.”

“Yeah, I know, this isn’t the first time I got ganged up on, just the first time a guild master was also helping out.” Lars snorted. “Calls me a coward and then jumps away the second there’s danger.”

“Red Nose knew they couldn’t win.”

“Why?”

“Because that prison move costs ability points for every second you have it up. They must have used up at least 200 points. You can’t win with such a disadvantage.”

Lars sat down and leaned against a wall. His body had suffered major damage, deep gashes and broken limbs covering every part of his avatar. Every movement hurt; the game transferred the sensation to his brain.

“What did you want to do alone anyway? No offense, but you’re not strong enough to take on a challenge in London alone,” Sarah said and sat down next to him. As always, her avatar hovered just a bit over the ground, never touching it.

“I don’t know, honestly,” Lars answered, “I wanted to do something, anything. I thought I could maybe surprise you with gaining new allies for our mission.”

“Our mission is not thought through enough to invite allies in at this point. I only told Violet Thunder because I was being honest, and I knew they would keep it to themselves. I would not tell it to anyone else.”

“I understand.” He looked through his inventory and applied a few healing items. “And what were you doing here?”

“I was going to visit the Tower again, there is something that I still want to check out that I didn’t get the chance to do yesterday.” She stood up again and looked towards the imposing structure in the distance. Like a double helix it wound itself into the clouds.

“Can I come along?” Lars asked.

“If you want, yes, but don’t get in my way. And be careful, we will go around Gold Saucer territory for now, but there are still members roaming all over the place.”

“Yes.”

“Well, then let’s go,” Sarah said, stood up and began the journey. They went across the chasm to the other side. Most of South London around here was controlled by Ardent Watcher, they had a de facto monopoly on south-central London. For the sake of speed Lars carried Sarah while using his jetpack flying above the buildings.

“I’ve been thinking about the thing with Ben,” Sarah said, “that he didn’t get a license.”

“And?”

“I was looking at a few things from my Hongkong days, and one thing I noticed is that his name is a bit weird.”

“How so?”

“What colour is smoke?”

Lars paused. “Well, grey. But also black, and white is also possible…”

“Exactly. It’s not really a colour. Granite, on the other hand…”

“Is a colour. Grey. But that would mean that his name is the wrong way around. How is that possible?” Lars looked at Sarah’s avatar.

“I don’t know. In recent time I’ve noticed that there is a lot of things I don’t know about the game. I was too focused on combat and battling back in the day, I never really cared about the game itself. As long as I won, it was fine.”

“I see, yeah, that makes sense.”

“Does it?” Sarah asked.

“Uhm, in a way, yes,” Lars answered. He became a bit flustered. “The way you didn’t know about taxes, that you don’t care about attacking other guild masters, that stuff. If you can win you want to win, no matter what.”

“It sounds terrible when you say it. There is more to me, other than just wanting to win, you know?”

“Yup, I know.”

The Tower of London came closer and closer. Flying around it were winged enemies, the lower wards teemed with ground-based enemies.

“Set us down in Lightning Strike territory, we don’t need to attract unnecessary attention by landing in a Gold sector.”

Lars nodded and began decreasing his altitude. On cruising speed his jetpack did not use up that many ability points, but he had still made a non-insignificant dent into his pool.

The surrounding area was clear, for now, but this evening it would be highly contested, every Sunday the turf wars began, and the different guilds tried to claim new sectors of London. Lars could already see some members of Lightning Strike prepare barricades to defend this sector. On the other side of the tower ward, in City of London, Gold saucer players had also begun fortifying the streets.

“What do you want to check out, by the way?” Lars asked.

“I never fought in central London; I want to know what the enemies around the Tower do, once the battle begins. I have a theory, but I want proof. To that end we will change our strategy today. You will have to defend Richmond yourselves; I will be here and look at the Tower. If I my theory is correct, then the enemies will disappear in order to let the battle go down undisturbed. If so, then we should siege the Tower during a turf war.”

“I see,” Lars said. He looked at the flying monsters swooping around the building. “Do you think the server will be there? What if it’s just a really high-level dungeon?”

“Then we’ll see. For now, there is no reason to not believe that the server will be there.” With her right arm, a handless limb ending in a pointed, razor-sharp blade, she pointed towards the clouds eternally covering the upper floors. “I am sure of it, although I have no proof. It has to be.”

“Well, I’m in, no matter what,” Lars said and looked at the Tower in awe.

“We should go back,” Lars eventually said. “We shouldn’t let the others think we’re going for a central sector this week.”

Sarah nodded and turned back.
