---
layout: post
title: Chapter 10 - Visitor
---

Ben stopped his car right in front of Sarah’s home. It was a building like all others around here, 3 stories with more and more houses to its left and right. The door was painted in bright colours and the doorbell had a crudely painted ‘Fielding’ written on it. Through one of the windows that stood slightly open the voice of a man singing could be heard, occasionally interrupted by the sound of a vacuum cleaner. The stairs leading up to the door had two slopes attached to it, as well as reinforced handrails on both sides.

Lars rang the doorbell. It gave off the sound of the Westminster chimes, and the singer went silent. When the door opened a middle-aged man appeared, dark hair that had begun greying a bit, brown eyes. A very pronounced nose sat above a similarly greying moustache. His cheeks had strong laugh lines.

“Good morning,” the man said.

“Good morning,” Lars returned, “Uhm, is Sarah here?”

“Yes, may I ask why?” The man leaned against the door frame. He filled it out to a significant degree, his short-sleeved shirt did not hide his athletic build.

“I’m Lars and this is Ben, we’re friends of hers, ask her and she’ll know.”

“Alright, please wait a moment, I’ll be right back,” the man said and closed the door. Lars and Ben waited in silent anticipation until Sarah opened the door. She had thrown a simple coat over her pyjamas, her feet in pink slippers with mouse ears.

“What a surprise, seeing you two here,” Sarah said and smiled. “How come?” She leaned against the door and fiddled with her cane.

“Well, we wanted to talk to you about yesterday.”

Sarah nodded. “I should have guessed. Well, come in for a moment, then we’ll talk.” She turned around and walked back inside. With a waving hand she signalled the others to follow her.

The living room was spacious and bright, a large window front to the garden let in a lot of sunlight. The walls were full shelves with books and pictures of Sarah and her family, the younger pictures often featuring the man they had just met, her father, and a woman, later on two men. The shelves had a large space cut out where a massive flat screen was mounted to the wall. All manner of old entertainment electronics was neatly tucked into the compartments, only some of which Lars recognized. Most must have been over 30 years old now.

Sarah sat down on the sofa, a large, turquoise couch with an ottoman attached. In front of the sofa was a coffee table littered with magazines and different controllers.

“Sorry for the chaos, but do you want something to drink?” Sarah asked.

“No, I’m fine,” Lars said, and Ben nodded in agreement.

“Then sit down,” Sarah said and pointed to the wide, unoccupied space next to her. Lars sat down next to her, Ben slightly across. “You wanted to talk?”

“Yeah, we wanted to know how you saved me yesterday, and why the secrecy with Sanguine Solar, if you don’t mind,” Lars asked her. He looked at her, she twirled her hair between her fingers, her violet eyes focusing on something behind Lars. For a moment she was silent, then leaned back and began to speak very quietly.

“Hm, Hongkong had a slightly different levelling system than London. We had access to some of the higher-level skills because we were a smaller server. Think about it this way: A server with 20 people could never level fast enough against each other to ever, realistically, reach any of the hard dungeons or raids. So, the skill curve is adapted to the player count.

“What I used there was more or less exactly what Sanguine Solar described. A move that kills instantly. A one-hit-knock-out, no questions asked. Well, almost no questions. It uses up a lot of ability power to use, but it is, undeniably, incredibly powerful. On a server like London, you’d probably have to be level 17 or even higher to get that.”

“17!?” Ben said, his eyes wide open. “I thought the game stopped at 15?” He had reclined into the cushions but sat upright again now.

“Yeah,” Sarah chuckled, “you never really see someone of that level, do you. Sanguine Solar is level 13, very, very respectable, but I’ve met a level 19 player from Shanghai once. They were so utterly, ridiculously powerful that they took on an entire legendary-class raid on their own, beating my guilds high score in one attempt. It took us 3 months of almost constant playing to get our names back on top.” She sighed. “I used to play a lot more back then, I spent almost every free minute in the game, from when I woke up until late into the night, especially on days where I couldn’t leave my bed due to pain.”

Lars raised his hand towards Sarah but stopped in the middle of the movement and put it back down. “Is there really no way to defend against that? Could you, in theory, just kill Sanguine Solar and take a good chunk of his points?”

“No, there are some restrictions to it. First of all, it can miss. It always hits I the target is at least three levels under you, has a 60 percent chance to hit if the target is within three levels of you, and has a 30 percent chance to hit if the target is more than three levels higher, so that you can’t just go on a rampage against all of the higher levels.

“Using it is also dangerous. You can’t spend any ability power for 10 seconds and take double damage, so you need to be very careful with when and how you use it. Against enemies it’s a guaranteed hit, though, so I knew there would be no immediate danger to me.”

The other man from the photos came down the stairs. He wore a wide shirt, top buttons open. His rounded face was sporting a week-old beard stubble and his violet eyes looked towards the three sitting on the sofa. He raised his eyebrows and Sarah gave him a thumbs up. He went into the kitchen and came out again soon after, with a plate of cookies in his hand.

“Nice to meet you two, do you want some cookies?” His voice was sonorous, but pleasant. “You know, Sarah never has guests, so this is somewhat of an occasion. Do you want something to drink? We have all manner of stuff in the fridge, soda, coke, some fruit juice, water, the typical.”

Sarah turned slightly red. “It’s alright, Pa, I already asked them.”

The man nodded. “Then I’ll let you continue talking. If anything comes up, all you need to do is ask.” He smiled and went back up the stairs.

“That’s my Pa, and you met my Dad as well already. Anyway, let’s return to the topic at hand. What else do you want to know?” Sarah shuffled her pillow around and lay fully on her back now.

“What did you say to Sanguine Solar?” Ben asked.

“Ah, that. Well, I told them the move. I knew they wouldn’t be content just knowing it was a one-hit-k-o. They would have probably demanded that I explain in front of everyone what I did, so I texted just enough to seem as if I was open about it, but still wanted to keep it a secret. Luckily, they caught onto it and backed down. It could have gotten very ugly otherwise.”

“Yeah, Sanguine Solar is a cool one. Never oversteps, always cordial, great guy,” Ben said, then chuckled. “If only the guild hadn’t that horrendous tax, I would have joined them maybe.”

“Tax?” Sarah asked. Her eyes narrowed. “What do you mean with that?”

“Wait, you don’t know about point taxes?” Lars asked her. “But you’re a guild master. I thought you just didn’t set one up because you’re cool.”

“Well, I’d like to think that I’m cool no matter if I set up a tax or not,” Sarah said, “but no, I don’t know what that is. I don’t think we had that in Hongkong.”

“Well, if you’re a member of Ardent watcher, you have to give half of the points you earn to Sanguine Solar,” Ben explained.

“What?” Sarah said loudly. “They just take away half of your points, no matter what? That’s stupid, why is Ardent Watcher the biggest guild, then? No wonder they are such a high level.” Sarah was visibly upset. “That’s not fair, I can’t believe it.”

“Calm down, boss. It’s not that easy. You get something big in return,” Lars said. Sarah looked at him with questioning eyes. “If you’re a member of Ardent Watcher you can basically never be thrown out of the game. If you fall below 50 points Sanguine Solar personally puts you back to 50 so that you never have to fear being killed permanently. It’s a good deal if all you want to do is just play.”

“I see, well, that makes sense, I guess,” Sarah said.

“I thought about joining Ardent Watcher as well in the beginning,” Lars admitted. “They are big, you always have buddies online, sure, you don’t level that fast, but you get to play without fear of uninstalling.”

“Do other guilds have taxes as well?” Sarah asked.

“Yup,” Lars answered, “but not to the degree of Ardent Watcher. Vitruvian Ascension takes 10 percent of what you get, the Golds take 15, I think, Lightning Strike takes 5 points flat, no matter how much you actually get, which makes them popular with high level players.”

“But why?”

“Guild operations, buying supplies for all members to use, guild house, that kind of stuff,” Ben said.

“Do people hop between guilds depending on their taxes?” Sarah asked.

“Not really, no,” Lars answered, “there are some, but in general they don’t. It’s like the code of honour, you don’t just abandon guild.”

“Huh,” was all Sarah said about that topic. For a moment they just sat there in silence. Ben took a cookie and ate it, eventually Lars took one as well.

“Pa made those,” Sarah said and went silent again. It was obvious that she was deep in thought.

“They’re really good,” Ben said and took another.

“Glad to hear,” Sarah said. “I’ll tell him later.”

“Oh, one thing,” Ben said, “I got level 5 yesterday in a dungeon crawl with Lars, but I didn’t get a copy license, thought that I should let you know.”

Sarah looked at him with concern and confusion. “What do you mean you didn’t get a copy license? You always get one on level 5, that’s how the game works.”

“Well, apparently not, since I didn’t get one.”

“Yeah, I can confirm that,” Lars added.

“Weird.” Sarah looked out the window and into the garden. A single tree grew there, on one of the broad, lower branches was a swing and next to it hammock. She breathed in deep and looked back at Lars and Ben.

“You realize how important this is to me, right?”

“What do you mean with that, exactly?” Lars asked. “Saving the game?”

“Yes. You heard my Pa. I never have guests. I don’t have friends at school. I didn’t get friends in Hongkong, I didn’t get any here. Too often I’m the weird one, who can’t walk, can’t listen, can’t do this, can’t do that. I’m exempt from phys ed. Games are the only way I could get to know people because people could see me, not my disabilities. I lost it all once, I don’t want to lose it again.”

“But you won’t,” Ben said. “You found us in real life. We’re your friends, you know. Even if London dies, you have our contacts, and we can visit you.”

“Man, you really are full of wisdom,” Lars said.

“Dude, don’t flatter me like that, I’m just saying it the way things are.”

“I guess that’s true,” Sarah said and huddled around a blanket. “Still, Power World is such a part of me, of who I am, that losing it again would be catastrophic.”

“You should, and I know how absolutely stupid and daft that sounds, get a social life,” Ben said and shrugged. “Go out with people, talk to them, I’m sure you’ll find someone.”

“Well, for now I have you, just as you said. I’ll see if I need more.”

“Anyway, it’s getting towards 10, I should definitely go home, my family is waiting for me.” Ben stood up. “Should I give you a ride home, Lars, or will you find it yourself?”

“I’ll get home, but thanks. I hope we see each other again, soon.”

“We’ll video call, that’ll do it.” He went towards the door.

Lars gave him a thumbs up. “That sounds awesome.”

With that Ben left. Lars could see the car leaving through a window onto the street.
